Produced by A Ghost Story of Christmas by I HAVE endeavoured in this Ghostly little book , to raise the of an Idea , which shall not put my readers out of humour with themselves , with each other , with the season , or with me .
May it haunt their houses pleasantly , and no one wish to lay it .
Their faithful Friend and , Stave I : 's II : The First of the Stave III : The Second of the Stave IV : The Last of the V : The End of It was dead : to begin with .
There is no doubt whatever about that .
The register of his burial was signed by the clergyman , the clerk , the undertaker , and the chief mourner .
signed it : and 's name was good upon 'Change , for anything he chose to put his hand to .
was as dead as a door-nail .
I do n't mean to say that I know , of my own knowledge , what there is particularly dead about a door-nail .
I might have been inclined , myself , to regard a coffin-nail as the deadest piece of ironmongery in the trade .
But the wisdom of our ancestors is in the simile ; and my unhallowed hands shall not disturb it , or the 's done for .
You will therefore permit me to repeat , emphatically , that was as dead as a door-nail .
knew he was dead ?
How could it be otherwise ?
and he were partners for I do n't know how many years .
was his sole executor , his sole administrator , his sole assign , his sole residuary legatee , his sole friend , and sole mourner .
And even was not so dreadfully cut up by the sad event , but that he was an excellent man of business on the very day of the funeral , and solemnised it with an undoubted bargain .
The mention of 's funeral brings me back to the point I started from .
There is no doubt that was dead .
This must be distinctly understood , or nothing wonderful can come of the story I am going to relate .
If we were not perfectly convinced that 's died before the play began , there would be nothing more remarkable in his taking a stroll at night , in an easterly wind , upon his own ramparts , than there would be in any other middle-aged gentleman rashly turning out after dark in a breezy spot -- say 's for instance -- literally to astonish his son 's weak mind .
never painted out 's name .
There it stood , years afterwards , above the warehouse door : and .
The firm was known as and .
Sometimes people new to the business called , and sometimes , but he answered to both names .
It was all the same to him .
But he was a tight-fisted hand at the grind-stone , !
a squeezing , wrenching , grasping , scraping , clutching , covetous , old sinner !
and sharp as flint , from which no steel had ever struck out generous fire ; secret , and self-contained , and solitary as an oyster .
The cold within him froze his old features , nipped his pointed nose , shrivelled his cheek , stiffened his gait ; made his eyes red , his thin lips blue ; and spoke out shrewdly in his grating voice .
A frosty rime was on his head , and on his eyebrows , and his wiry chin .
He carried his own low temperature always about with him ; he iced his office in the dog-days ; and did n't thaw it one degree at .
External heat and cold had little influence on .
No warmth could warm , no wintry weather chill him .
No wind that blew was bitterer than he , no falling snow was more intent upon its purpose , no pelting rain less open to entreaty .
weather did n't know where to have him .
The heaviest rain , and snow , and hail , and sleet , could boast of the advantage over him in only one respect .
They often `` came down '' handsomely , and never did .
ever stopped him in the street to say , with gladsome looks , `` My dear Scrooge , how are you ?
When will you come to see me ? ''
No beggars implored him to bestow a trifle , no children asked him what it was o'clock , no man or woman ever once in all his life inquired the way to such and such a place , of .
Even the blind men 's dogs appeared to know him ; and when they saw him coming on , would tug their owners into doorways and up courts ; and then would wag their tails as though they said , `` No eye at all is better than an evil eye , dark master ! ''
But what did care !
It was the very thing he liked .
To edge his way along the crowded paths of life , warning all human sympathy to keep its distance , was what the knowing ones call `` nuts '' to .
Once upon a time -- of all the good days in the year , on -- old sat busy in his counting-house .
It was cold , bleak , biting weather : foggy withal : and he could hear the people in the court outside , go wheezing up and down , beating their hands upon their breasts , and stamping their feet upon the pavement stones to warm them .
The city clocks had only just gone three , but it was quite dark already -- it had not been light all day -- and candles were flaring in the windows of the neighbouring offices , like ruddy smears upon the palpable brown air .
The fog came pouring in at every chink and keyhole , and was so dense without , that although the court was of the narrowest , the houses opposite were mere phantoms .
To see the dingy cloud come drooping down , obscuring everything , one might have thought that lived hard by , and was brewing on a large scale .
The door of 's counting-house was open that he might keep his eye upon his clerk , who in a dismal little cell beyond , a sort of tank , was copying letters .
had a very small fire , but the clerk 's fire was so very much smaller that it looked like one coal .
But he could n't replenish it , for kept the coal-box in his own room ; and so surely as the clerk came in with the shovel , the master predicted that it would be necessary for them to part .
Wherefore the clerk put on his white comforter , and tried to warm himself at the candle ; in which effort , not being a man of a strong imagination , he failed .
It was the voice of 's nephew , who came upon him so quickly that this was the first intimation he had of his approach .
He had so heated himself with rapid walking in the fog and frost , this nephew of 's , that he was all in a glow ; his face was ruddy and handsome ; his eyes sparkled , and his breath smoked again .
`` You do n't mean that , I am sure ? ''
What right have you to be merry ?
What reason have you to be merry ?
`` Come , then , '' returned the nephew gaily .
`` What right have you to be dismal ?
What reason have you to be morose ?
having no better answer ready on the spur of the moment , said , `` Bah ! ''
again ; and followed it up with `` Humbug . ''
`` What else can I be , '' returned the uncle , `` when I live in such a world of fools as this ?
What 's Christmas time to you but a time for paying bills without money ; a time for finding yourself a year older , but not an hour richer ; a time for balancing your books and having every item in 'em through a round dozen of months presented dead against you ?
If I could work my will , '' said indignantly , `` every idiot who goes about with ' on his lips , should be boiled with his own pudding , and buried with a stake of holly through his heart .
returned the uncle sternly , `` keep in your own way , and let me keep it in mine . ''
`` But you do n't keep it . ''
`` Let me leave it alone , then , '' said .
`` Much good may it do you !
Much good it has ever done you ! ''
`` There are many things from which I might have derived good , by which I have not profited , I dare say , '' returned the nephew .
But I am sure I have always thought of time , when it has come round -- apart from the veneration due to its sacred name and origin , if anything belonging to it can be apart from that -- as a good time ; a kind , forgiving , charitable , pleasant time ; the only time I know of , in the long calendar of the year , when men and women seem by one consent to open their shut-up hearts freely , and to think of people below them as if they really were fellow-passengers to the grave , and not another race of creatures bound on other journeys .
And therefore , uncle , though it has never put a scrap of gold or silver in my pocket , I believe that it has done me good , and will do me good ; and I say , bless it ! ''
The clerk in the involuntarily applauded .
Becoming immediately sensible of the impropriety , he poked the fire , and extinguished the last frail spark for ever .
`` Let me hear another sound from you , '' said , `` and you 'll keep your Christmas by losing your situation !
You 're quite a powerful speaker , sir , '' he added , turning to his nephew .
`` I wonder you do n't go into . ''
said that he would see him -- yes , indeed he did .
He went the whole length of the expression , and said that he would see him in that extremity first .
`` Why did you get married ? ''
`` Because I fell in love . ''
`` Because you fell in love ! ''
growled , as if that were the only one thing in the world more ridiculous than a merry Christmas .
`` Nay , uncle , but you never came to see me before that happened .
Why give it as a reason for not coming now ? ''
`` I want nothing from you ; I ask nothing of you ; why can not we be friends ? ''
`` I am sorry , with all my heart , to find you so resolute .
We have never had any quarrel , to which I have been a party .
But I have made the trial in homage to , and I 'll keep my Christmas humour to the last .
So A , uncle ! ''
`` And A ! ''
His nephew left the room without an angry word , notwithstanding .
He stopped at the outer door to bestow the greetings of the season on the clerk , who , cold as he was , was warmer than ; for he returned them cordially .
`` There 's another fellow , '' muttered ; who overheard him : `` my clerk , with fifteen shillings a week , and a wife and family , talking about a merry Christmas .
This lunatic , in letting 's nephew out , had let two other people in .
They were portly gentlemen , pleasant to behold , and now stood , with their hats off , in 's office .
They had books and papers in their hands , and bowed to him .
`` and 's , I believe , '' said one of the gentlemen , referring to his list .
`` Have I the pleasure of addressing , or Mr .
`` has been dead these seven years , '' replied .
`` He died seven years ago , this very night . ''
`` We have no doubt his liberality is well represented by his surviving partner , '' said the gentleman , presenting his credentials .
It certainly was ; for they had been two kindred spirits .
At the ominous word `` liberality , '' frowned , and shook his head , and handed the credentials back .
`` At this festive season of the year , , '' said the gentleman , taking up a pen , `` it is more than usually desirable that we should make some slight provision for the and destitute , who suffer greatly at the present time .
Many thousands are in want of common necessaries ; hundreds of thousands are in want of common comforts , sir . ''
`` Plenty of prisons , '' said the gentleman , laying down the pen again .
`` Are they still in operation ? ''
Still , '' returned the gentleman , `` I wish I could say they were not . ''
`` The and the Law are in full vigour , then ? ''
I was afraid , from what you said at first , that something had occurred to stop them in their useful course , '' said .
`` I 'm very glad to hear it . ''
`` Under the impression that they scarcely furnish cheer of mind or body to the multitude , '' returned the gentleman , `` a few of us are endeavouring to raise a fund to buy the Poor some meat and drink , and means of warmth .
We choose this time , because it is a time , of all others , when is keenly felt , and rejoices .
What shall I put you down for ? ''
`` You wish to be anonymous ? ''
`` I wish to be left alone , '' said .
`` Since you ask me what I wish , gentlemen , that is my answer .
I do n't make merry myself at and I ca n't afford to make idle people merry .
I help to support the establishments I have mentioned -- they cost enough ; and those who are badly off must go there . ''
`` Many ca n't go there ; and many would rather die . ''
`` If they would rather die , '' said , `` they had better do it , and decrease the surplus population .
Besides -- excuse me -- I do n't know that . ''
`` But you might know it , '' observed the gentleman .
`` It 's not my business , '' returned .
`` It 's enough for a man to understand his own business , and not to interfere with other people 's .
Seeing clearly that it would be useless to pursue their point , the gentlemen withdrew .
resumed his labours with an improved opinion of himself , and in a more facetious temper than was usual with him .
Meanwhile the fog and darkness thickened so , that people ran about with flaring links , proffering their services to go before horses in carriages , and conduct them on their way .
The ancient tower of a church , whose gruff old bell was always peeping slily down at out of a window in the wall , became invisible , and struck the hours and quarters in the clouds , with tremulous vibrations afterwards as if its teeth were chattering in its frozen head up there .
In the main street , at the corner of the court , some labourers were repairing the gas-pipes , and had lighted a great fire in a brazier , round which a party of ragged men and boys were gathered : warming their hands and winking their eyes before the blaze in rapture .
The water-plug being left in solitude , its overflowings sullenly congealed , and turned to misanthropic ice .
The brightness of the shops where holly sprigs and berries crackled in the lamp heat of the windows , made pale faces ruddy as they passed .
Poulterers ' and grocers ' trades became a splendid joke : a glorious pageant , with which it was next to impossible to believe that such dull principles as bargain and sale had anything to do .
The Mayor , in the stronghold of the mighty Mansion , gave orders to his fifty cooks and butlers to keep as a Mayor 's household should ; and even the little tailor , whom he had fined five shillings on the previous Monday for being drunk and bloodthirsty in the streets , stirred up to-morrow 's pudding in his garret , while his lean wife and the baby sallied out to buy the beef .
If the good Saint had but nipped the 's nose with a touch of such weather as that , instead of using his familiar weapons , then indeed he would have roared to lusty purpose .
The owner of one scant young nose , gnawed and mumbled by the hungry cold as bones are gnawed by dogs , stooped down at 's keyhole to regale him with a Christmas carol : but at the first sound of `` God bless you , merry gentleman !
seized the ruler with such energy of action , that the singer fled in terror , leaving the keyhole to the fog and even more congenial frost .
At length the hour of shutting up the counting-house arrived .
With an ill-will dismounted from his stool , and tacitly admitted the fact to the expectant clerk in the , who instantly snuffed his candle out , and put on his hat .
`` You 'll want all day to-morrow , I suppose ? ''
`` It 's not convenient , '' said , `` and it 's not fair .
If I was to stop half-a-crown for it , you 'd think yourself ill-used , I 'll be bound ? ''
`` And yet , '' said , `` you do n't think me ill-used , when I pay a day 's wages for no work . ''
The clerk observed that it was only once a year .
`` A poor excuse for picking a man 's pocket every twenty-fifth of December ! ''
said , buttoning his great-coat to the chin .
`` But I suppose you must have the whole day .
Be here all the earlier next morning . ''
The clerk promised that he would ; and walked out with a growl .
The office was closed in a twinkling , and the clerk , with the long ends of his white comforter dangling below his waist ( for he boasted no great-coat ) , went down a slide on , at the end of a lane of boys , twenty times , in honour of its being , and then ran home to as hard as he could pelt , to play at blindman's-buff .
took his melancholy dinner in his usual melancholy tavern ; and having read all the newspapers , and beguiled the rest of the evening with his banker's-book , went home to bed .
He lived in chambers which had once belonged to his deceased partner .
They were a gloomy suite of rooms , in a lowering pile of building up a yard , where it had so little business to be , that one could scarcely help fancying it must have run there when it was a young house , playing at hide-and-seek with other houses , and forgotten the way out again .
It was old enough now , and dreary enough , for nobody lived in it but , the other rooms being all let out as offices .
The yard was so dark that even , who knew its every stone , was fain to grope with his hands .
The fog and frost so hung about the black old gateway of the house , that it seemed as if the of the sat in mournful meditation on the threshold .
Now , it is a fact , that there was nothing at all particular about the knocker on the door , except that it was very large .
It is also a fact , that had seen it , night and morning , during his whole residence in that place ; also that had as little of what is called fancy about him as any man in the city of , even including -- which is a bold word -- the corporation , aldermen , and livery .
Let it also be borne in mind that had not bestowed one thought on , since his last mention of his seven years ' dead partner that afternoon .
And then let any man explain to me , if he can , how it happened that , having his key in the lock of the door , saw in the knocker , without its undergoing any intermediate process of change -- not a knocker , but 's face .
It was not in impenetrable shadow as the other objects in the yard were , but had a dismal light about it , like a bad lobster in a dark cellar .
It was not angry or ferocious , but looked at as used to look : with ghostly spectacles turned up on its ghostly forehead .
The hair was curiously stirred , as if by breath or hot air ; and , though the eyes were wide open , they were perfectly motionless .
That , and its livid colour , made it horrible ; but its horror seemed to be in spite of the face and beyond its control , rather than a part of its own expression .
As looked fixedly at this phenomenon , it was a knocker again .
To say that he was not startled , or that his blood was not conscious of a terrible sensation to which it had been a stranger from infancy , would be untrue .
But he put his hand upon the key he had relinquished , turned it sturdily , walked in , and lighted his candle .
He did pause , with a moment 's irresolution , before he shut the door ; and he did look cautiously behind it first , as if he half expected to be terrified with the sight of 's pigtail sticking out into the hall .
But there was nothing on the back of the door , except the screws and nuts that held the knocker on , so he said `` Pooh , pooh ! ''
and closed it with a bang .
The sound resounded through the house like thunder .
Every room above , and every cask in the wine-merchant 's cellars below , appeared to have a separate peal of echoes of its own .
was not a man to be frightened by echoes .
He fastened the door , and walked across the hall , and up the stairs ; slowly too : trimming his candle as he went .
You may talk vaguely about driving a coach-and-six up a good old flight of stairs , or through a bad young Act of ; but I mean to say you might have got a hearse up that staircase , and taken it broadwise , with the splinter-bar towards the wall and the door towards the balustrades : and done it easy .
There was plenty of width for that , and room to spare ; which is perhaps the reason why thought he saw a locomotive hearse going on before him in the gloom .
Half-a-dozen gas-lamps out of the street would n't have lighted the entry too well , so you may suppose that it was pretty dark with 's dip .
Up went , not caring a button for that .
is cheap , and liked it .
But before he shut his heavy door , he walked through his rooms to see that all was right .
He had just enough recollection of the face to desire to do that .
All as they should be .
under the table , nobody under the sofa ; a small fire in the grate ; spoon and basin ready ; and the little saucepan of gruel ( had a cold in his head ) upon the hob .
under the bed ; nobody in the closet ; nobody in his dressing-gown , which was hanging up in a suspicious attitude against the wall .
fire-guard , old shoes , two fish-baskets , on three legs , and a poker .
Quite satisfied , he closed his door , and locked himself in ; double-locked himself in , which was not his custom .
Thus secured against surprise , he took off his cravat ; put on his dressing-gown and slippers , and his nightcap ; and sat down before the fire to take his gruel .
It was a very low fire indeed ; nothing on such a bitter night .
He was obliged to sit close to it , and brood over it , before he could extract the least sensation of warmth from such a handful of fuel .
The fireplace was an old one , built by some merchant long ago , and paved all round with quaint tiles , designed to illustrate the .
There were and , 's daughters ; of , messengers descending through the air on clouds like feather-beds , , , putting off to sea in butter-boats , hundreds of figures to attract his thoughts ; and yet that face of , seven years dead , came like the ancient 's rod , and swallowed up the whole .
If each smooth tile had been a blank at first , with power to shape some picture on its surface from the disjointed fragments of his thoughts , there would have been a copy of old 's head on every one .
said ; and walked across the room .
After several turns , he sat down again .
As he threw his head back in the chair , his glance happened to rest upon a bell , a disused bell , that hung in the room , and communicated for some purpose now forgotten with a chamber in the highest story of the building .
It was with great astonishment , and with a strange , inexplicable dread , that as he looked , he saw this bell begin to swing .
It swung so softly in the outset that it scarcely made a sound ; but soon it rang out loudly , and so did every bell in the house .
This might have lasted half a minute , or a minute , but it seemed an hour .
The bells ceased as they had begun , together .
They were succeeded by a clanking noise , deep down below ; as if some person were dragging a heavy chain over the casks in the wine-merchant 's cellar .
then remembered to have heard that ghosts in haunted houses were described as dragging chains .
The cellar-door flew open with a booming sound , and then he heard the noise much louder , on the floors below ; then coming up the stairs ; then coming straight towards his door .
His colour changed though , when , without a pause , it came on through the heavy door , and passed into the room before his eyes .
Upon its coming in , the dying flame leaped up , as though it cried , `` I know him ; 's Ghost ! ''
The same face : the very same .
in his pigtail , usual waistcoat , tights and boots ; the tassels on the latter bristling , like his pigtail , and his coat-skirts , and the hair upon his head .
The chain he drew was clasped about his middle .
It was long , and wound about him like a tail ; and it was made ( for observed it closely ) of cash-boxes , keys , padlocks , ledgers , deeds , and heavy purses wrought in steel .
His body was transparent ; so that , observing him , and looking through his waistcoat , could see the two buttons on his coat behind .
had often heard it said that had no bowels , but he had never believed it until now .
No , nor did he believe it even now .
Though he looked the phantom through and through , and saw it standing before him ; though he felt the chilling influence of its death-cold eyes ; and marked the very texture of the folded kerchief bound about its head and chin , which wrapper he had not observed before ; he was still incredulous , and fought against his senses .
said , caustic and cold as ever .
`` What do you want with me ? ''
-- 's voice , no doubt about it .
`` Ask me who I was . ''
said , raising his voice .
`` You 're particular , for a shade . ''
He was going to say `` to a shade , '' but substituted this , as more appropriate .
`` In life I was your partner , . ''
`` Can you -- can you sit down ? ''
asked , looking doubtfully at him .
asked the question , because he did n't know whether a ghost so transparent might find himself in a condition to take a chair ; and felt that in the event of its being impossible , it might involve the necessity of an embarrassing explanation .
But the ghost sat down on the opposite side of the fireplace , as if he were quite used to it .
`` You do n't believe in me , '' observed the .
`` What evidence would you have of my reality beyond that of your senses ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' said .
`` Why do you doubt your senses ? ''
`` Because , '' said , `` a little thing affects them .
A slight disorder of the stomach makes them cheats .
You may be an undigested bit of beef , a blot of mustard , a crumb of cheese , a fragment of an underdone potato .
There 's more of gravy than of grave about you , whatever you are ! ''
was not much in the habit of cracking jokes , nor did he feel , in his heart , by any means waggish then .
The truth is , that he tried to be smart , as a means of distracting his own attention , and keeping down his terror ; for the spectre 's voice disturbed the very marrow in his bones .
To sit , staring at those fixed glazed eyes , in silence for a moment , would play , felt , the very deuce with him .
There was something very awful , too , in the spectre 's being provided with an infernal atmosphere of its own .
could not feel it himself , but this was clearly the case ; for though the sat perfectly motionless , its hair , and skirts , and tassels , were still agitated as by the hot vapour from an oven .
said , returning quickly to the charge , for the reason just assigned ; and wishing , though it were only for a second , to divert the vision 's stony gaze from himself .
`` I do , '' replied the .
`` You are not looking at it , '' said .
`` But I see it , '' said the , `` notwithstanding . ''
returned , `` I have but to swallow this , and be for the rest of my days persecuted by a legion of goblins , all of my own creation .
At this the spirit raised a frightful cry , and shook its chain with such a dismal and appalling noise , that held on tight to his chair , to save himself from falling in a swoon .
But how much greater was his horror , when the phantom taking off the bandage round its head , as if it were too warm to wear indoors , its lower jaw dropped down upon its breast !
fell upon his knees , and clasped his hands before his face .
`` Dreadful apparition , why do you trouble me ? ''
`` Man of the worldly mind ! ''
replied the , `` do you believe in me or not ? ''
But why do spirits walk the earth , and why do they come to me ? ''
`` It is required of every man , '' the returned , `` that the spirit within him should walk abroad among his fellowmen , and travel far and wide ; and if that spirit goes not forth in life , it is condemned to do so after death .
It is doomed to wander through the world -- oh , woe is me ! -- and witness what it can not share , but might have shared on earth , and turned to happiness ! ''
Again the spectre raised a cry , and shook its chain and wrung its shadowy hands .
`` You are fettered , '' said , trembling .
`` I wear the chain I forged in life , '' replied the .
`` I made it link by link , and yard by yard ; I girded it on of my own free will , and of my own free will I wore it .
Is its pattern strange to you ? ''
trembled more and more .
`` Or would you know , '' pursued the , `` the weight and length of the strong coil you bear yourself ?
It was full as heavy and as long as this , seven Christmas Eves ago .
You have laboured on it , since .
It is a ponderous chain ! ''
glanced about him on the floor , in the expectation of finding himself surrounded by some fifty or sixty fathoms of iron cable : but he could see nothing .
`` Old , tell me more .
comfort to me , ! ''
`` I have none to give , '' the replied .
`` It comes from other regions , , and is conveyed by other ministers , to other kinds of men .
Nor can I tell you what I would .
A very little more is all permitted to me .
I can not rest , I can not stay , I can not linger anywhere .
My spirit never walked beyond our counting-house -- mark me ! -- in life my spirit never roved beyond the narrow limits of our money-changing hole ; and weary journeys lie before me ! ''
It was a habit with , whenever he became thoughtful , to put his hands in his breeches pockets .
Pondering on what the had said , he did so now , but without lifting up his eyes , or getting off his knees .
`` You must have been very slow about it , , '' observed , in a business-like manner , though with humility and deference .
`` Seven years dead , '' mused .
`` And travelling all the time ! ''
`` The whole time , '' said the .
`` On the wings of the wind , '' replied the .
`` You might have got over a great quantity of ground in seven years , '' said .
The , on hearing this , set up another cry , and clanked its chain so hideously in the dead silence of the night , that the would have been justified in indicting it for a nuisance .
captive , bound , and double-ironed , '' cried the phantom , `` not to know , that ages of incessant labour by immortal creatures , for this earth must pass into eternity before the good of which it is susceptible is all developed .
Not to know that any spirit working kindly in its little sphere , whatever it may be , will find its mortal life too short for its vast means of usefulness .
Not to know that no space of regret can make amends for one life 's opportunity misused !
`` But you were always a good man of business , , '' faltered , who now began to apply this to himself .
cried the , wringing its hands again .
The common welfare was my business ; charity , mercy , forbearance , and benevolence , were , all , my business .
The dealings of my trade were but a drop of water in the comprehensive ocean of my business ! ''
It held up its chain at arm 's length , as if that were the cause of all its unavailing grief , and flung it heavily upon the ground again .
`` At this time of the rolling year , '' the spectre said , `` I suffer most .
Why did I walk through crowds of fellow-beings with my eyes turned down , and never raise them to that blessed which led the to a poor abode !
Were there no poor homes to which its light would have conducted me ! ''
was very much dismayed to hear the spectre going on at this rate , and began to quake exceedingly .
`` My time is nearly gone . ''
`` But do n't be hard upon me !
`` How it is that I appear before you in a shape that you can see , I may not tell .
I have sat invisible beside you many and many a day . ''
It was not an agreeable idea .
shivered , and wiped the perspiration from his brow .
`` That is no light part of my penance , '' pursued the .
`` I am here to-night to warn you , that you have yet a chance and hope of escaping my fate .
A chance and hope of my procuring , . ''
`` You were always a good friend to me , '' said .
`` You will be haunted , '' resumed the , `` by . ''
's countenance fell almost as low as the 's had done .
`` Is that the chance and hope you mentioned , ? ''
he demanded , in a faltering voice .
`` I -- I think I 'd rather not , '' said .
`` Without their visits , '' said the , `` you can not hope to shun the path I tread .
Expect the first to-morrow , when the bell tolls One . ''
`` Could n't I take 'em all at once , and have it over , ? ''
`` Expect the second on the next night at the same hour .
The third upon the next night when the last stroke of has ceased to vibrate .
Look to see me no more ; and look that , for your own sake , you remember what has passed between us ! ''
When it had said these words , the spectre took its wrapper from the table , and bound it round its head , as before .
knew this , by the smart sound its teeth made , when the jaws were brought together by the bandage .
He ventured to raise his eyes again , and found his supernatural visitor confronting him in an erect attitude , with its chain wound over and about its arm .
The apparition walked backward from him ; and at every step it took , the window raised itself a little , so that when the spectre reached it , it was wide open .
It beckoned to approach , which he did .
When they were within two paces of each other , 's held up its hand , warning him to come no nearer .
Not so much in obedience , as in surprise and fear : for on the raising of the hand , he became sensible of confused noises in the air ; incoherent sounds of lamentation and regret ; wailings inexpressibly sorrowful and self-accusatory .
The spectre , after listening for a moment , joined in the mournful dirge ; and floated out upon the bleak , dark night .
followed to the window : desperate in his curiosity .
The air was filled with phantoms , wandering hither and thither in restless haste , and moaning as they went .
Every one of them wore chains like 's ; some few ( they might be guilty governments ) were linked together ; none were free .
Many had been personally known to in their lives .
He had been quite familiar with one old ghost , in a white waistcoat , with a monstrous iron safe attached to its ankle , who cried piteously at being unable to assist a wretched woman with an infant , whom it saw below , upon a door-step .
The misery with them all was , clearly , that they sought to interfere , for good , in human matters , and had lost the power for ever .
Whether these creatures faded into mist , or mist enshrouded them , he could not tell .
But they and their spirit voices faded together ; and the night became as it had been when he walked home .
closed the window , and examined the door by which the had entered .
It was double-locked , as he had locked it with his own hands , and the bolts were undisturbed .
He tried to say `` Humbug ! ''
but stopped at the first syllable .
And being , from the emotion he had undergone , or the fatigues of the day , or his glimpse of the , or the dull conversation of the , or the lateness of the hour , much in need of repose ; went straight to bed , without undressing , and fell asleep upon the instant .
WHEN awoke , it was so dark , that looking out of bed , he could scarcely distinguish the transparent window from the opaque walls of his chamber .
He was endeavouring to pierce the darkness with his ferret eyes , when the chimes of a neighbouring church struck the four quarters .
So he listened for the hour .
To his great astonishment the heavy bell went on from six to seven , and from seven to eight , and regularly up to twelve ; then stopped .
It was past two when he went to bed .
An icicle must have got into the works .
He touched the spring of his repeater , to correct this most preposterous clock .
Its rapid little pulse beat twelve : and stopped .
`` Why , it is n't possible , '' said , `` that I can have slept through a whole day and far into another night .
It is n't possible that anything has happened to the sun , and this is twelve at noon ! ''
The idea being an alarming one , he scrambled out of bed , and groped his way to the window .
He was obliged to rub the frost off with the sleeve of his dressing-gown before he could see anything ; and could see very little then .
All he could make out was , that it was still very foggy and extremely cold , and that there was no noise of people running to and fro , and making a great stir , as there unquestionably would have been if night had beaten off bright day , and taken possession of the world .
This was a great relief , because `` three days after sight of this First of pay to or his order , '' and so forth , would have become a mere ' security if there were no days to count by .
went to bed again , and thought , and thought , and thought it over and over and over , and could make nothing of it .
The more he thought , the more perplexed he was ; and the more he endeavoured not to think , the more he thought .
's bothered him exceedingly .
Every time he resolved within himself , after mature inquiry , that it was all a dream , his mind flew back again , like a strong spring released , to its first position , and presented the same problem to be worked all through , `` Was it a dream or not ? ''
lay in this state until the chime had gone three quarters more , when he remembered , on a sudden , that the had warned him of a visitation when the bell tolled one .
He resolved to lie awake until the hour was passed ; and , considering that he could no more go to sleep than go to , this was perhaps the wisest resolution in his power .
The quarter was so long , that he was more than once convinced he must have sunk into a doze unconsciously , and missed the clock .
At length it broke upon his listening ear .
`` A quarter past , '' said , counting .
`` A quarter to it , '' said .
`` The hour itself , '' said , triumphantly , `` and nothing else ! ''
He spoke before the hour bell sounded , which it now did with a deep , dull , hollow , melancholy ONE .
flashed up in the room upon the instant , and the curtains of his bed were drawn .
The curtains of his bed were drawn aside , I tell you , by a hand .
Not the curtains at his feet , nor the curtains at his back , but those to which his face was addressed .
The curtains of his bed were drawn aside ; and , starting up into a half-recumbent attitude , found himself face to face with the unearthly visitor who drew them : as close to it as I am now to you , and I am standing in the spirit at your elbow .
It was a strange figure -- like a child : yet not so like a child as like an old man , viewed through some supernatural medium , which gave him the appearance of having receded from the view , and being diminished to a child 's proportions .
Its hair , which hung about its neck and down its back , was white as if with age ; and yet the face had not a wrinkle in it , and the tenderest bloom was on the skin .
The arms were very long and muscular ; the hands the same , as if its hold were of uncommon strength .
Its legs and feet , most delicately formed , were , like those upper members , bare .
It wore a tunic of the purest white ; and round its waist was bound a lustrous belt , the sheen of which was beautiful .
It held a branch of fresh green holly in its hand ; and , in singular contradiction of that wintry emblem , had its dress trimmed with summer flowers .
But the strangest thing about it was , that from the crown of its head there sprung a bright clear jet of light , by which all this was visible ; and which was doubtless the occasion of its using , in its duller moments , a great extinguisher for a cap , which it now held under its arm .
Even this , though , when looked at it with increasing steadiness , was not its strangest quality .
For as its belt sparkled and glittered now in one part and now in another , and what was light one instant , at another time was dark , so the figure itself fluctuated in its distinctness : being now a thing with one arm , now with one leg , now with twenty legs , now a pair of legs without a head , now a head without a body : of which dissolving parts , no outline would be visible in the dense gloom wherein they melted away .
And in the very wonder of this , it would be itself again ; distinct and clear as ever .
`` Are you the , sir , whose coming was foretold to me ? ''
The voice was soft and gentle .
Singularly low , as if instead of being so close beside him , it were at a distance .
`` Who , and what are you ? ''
`` I am the of . ''
inquired Scrooge : observant of its dwarfish stature .
Perhaps , could not have told anybody why , if anybody could have asked him ; but he had a special desire to see the in his cap ; and begged him to be covered .
exclaimed the , `` would you so soon put out , with worldly hands , the light I give ?
Is it not enough that you are one of those whose passions made this cap , and force me through whole trains of years to wear it low upon my brow ! ''
reverently disclaimed all intention to offend or any knowledge of having wilfully `` bonneted '' the at any period of his life .
He then made bold to inquire what business brought him there .
expressed himself much obliged , but could not help thinking that a night of unbroken rest would have been more conducive to that end .
The must have heard him thinking , for it said immediately : `` Your reclamation , then .
It put out its strong hand as it spoke , and clasped him gently by the arm .
It would have been in vain for to plead that the weather and the hour were not adapted to pedestrian purposes ; that bed was warm , and the thermometer a long way below freezing ; that he was clad but lightly in his slippers , dressing-gown , and nightcap ; and that he had a cold upon him at that time .
The grasp , though gentle as a woman 's hand , was not to be resisted .
He rose : but finding that the made towards the window , clasped his robe in supplication .
`` I am a mortal , '' remonstrated , `` and liable to fall . ''
`` Bear but a touch of my hand there , '' said the , laying it upon his heart , `` and you shall be upheld in more than this ! ''
As the words were spoken , they passed through the wall , and stood upon an open country road , with fields on either hand .
The city had entirely vanished .
Not a vestige of it was to be seen .
The darkness and the mist had vanished with it , for it was a clear , cold , winter day , with snow upon the ground .
said , clasping his hands together , as he looked about him .
`` I was bred in this place .
I was a boy here ! ''
The gazed upon him mildly .
Its gentle touch , though it had been light and instantaneous , appeared still present to the old man 's sense of feeling .
He was conscious of a thousand odours floating in the air , each one connected with a thousand thoughts , and hopes , and joys , and cares long , long , forgotten !
`` Your lip is trembling , '' said the .
`` And what is that upon your cheek ? ''
muttered , with an unusual catching in his voice , that it was a pimple ; and begged the to lead him where he would .
cried with fervour ; `` I could walk it blindfold . ''
`` Strange to have forgotten it for so many years ! ''
They walked along the road , recognising every gate , and post , and tree ; until a little market-town appeared in the distance , with its bridge , its church , and winding river .
Some shaggy ponies now were seen trotting towards them with boys upon their backs , who called to other boys in country gigs and carts , driven by farmers .
All these boys were in great spirits , and shouted to each other , until the broad fields were so full of merry music , that the crisp air laughed to hear it !
`` These are but shadows of the things that have been , '' said the .
`` They have no consciousness of us . ''
The jocund travellers came on ; and as they came , knew and named them every one .
Why was he rejoiced beyond all bounds to see them !
Why did his cold eye glisten , and his heart leap up as they went past !
Why was he filled with gladness when he heard them give each other , as they parted at cross-roads and bye-ways , for their several homes !
What was merry Christmas to ?
What good had it ever done to him ?
`` The school is not quite deserted , '' said the .
`` A solitary child , neglected by his friends , is left there still . ''
said he knew it .
They left the high-road , by a well-remembered lane , and soon approached a mansion of dull red brick , with a little weathercock-surmounted cupola , on the roof , and a bell hanging in it .
It was a large house , but one of broken fortunes ; for the spacious offices were little used , their walls were damp and mossy , their windows broken , and their gates decayed .
clucked and strutted in the stables ; and the coach-houses and sheds were over-run with grass .
Nor was it more retentive of its ancient state , within ; for entering the dreary hall , and glancing through the open doors of many rooms , they found them poorly furnished , cold , and vast .
There was an earthy savour in the air , a chilly bareness in the place , which associated itself somehow with too much getting up by candle-light , and not too much to eat .
They went , the and , across the hall , to a door at the back of the house .
It opened before them , and disclosed a long , bare , melancholy room , made barer still by lines of plain deal forms and desks .
At one of these a lonely boy was reading near a feeble fire ; and sat down upon a form , and wept to see his poor forgotten self as he used to be .
Not a latent echo in the house , not a squeak and scuffle from the mice behind the panelling , not a drip from the half-thawed water-spout in the dull yard behind , not a sigh among the leafless boughs of one despondent poplar , not the idle swinging of an empty store-house door , no , not a clicking in the fire , but fell upon the heart of with a softening influence , and gave a freer passage to his tears .
The touched him on the arm , and pointed to his younger self , intent upon his reading .
Suddenly a man , in foreign garments : wonderfully real and distinct to look at : stood outside the window , with an axe stuck in his belt , and leading by the bridle an ass laden with wood .
`` It 's dear old honest !
One Christmas time , when yonder solitary child was left here all alone , he did come , for the first time , just like that .
And , '' said , `` and his wild brother , ; there they go !
And what 's his name , who was put down in his drawers , asleep , at the of ; do n't you see him !
And the 's turned upside down by the ; there he is upon his head !
What business had he to be married to the ! ''
To hear expending all the earnestness of his nature on such subjects , in a most extraordinary voice between laughing and crying ; and to see his heightened and excited face ; would have been a surprise to his business friends in the city , indeed .
`` Green body and yellow tail , with a thing like a lettuce growing out of the top of his head ; there he is !
, he called him , when he came home again after sailing round the island .
'Poor , where have you been , ? '
The man thought he was dreaming , but he was n't .
It was the , you know .
There goes Friday , running for his life to the little creek !
Then , with a rapidity of transition very foreign to his usual character , he said , in pity for his former self , `` Poor boy ! ''
`` I wish , '' muttered , putting his hand in his pocket , and looking about him , after drying his eyes with his cuff : `` but it 's too late now . ''
There was a boy singing a Christmas Carol at my door last night .
I should like to have given him something : that 's all . ''
The smiled thoughtfully , and waved its hand : saying as it did so , `` Let us see another Christmas ! ''
's former self grew larger at the words , and the room became a little darker and more dirty .
The panels shrunk , the windows cracked ; fragments of plaster fell out of the ceiling , and the naked laths were shown instead ; but how all this was brought about , knew no more than you do .
He only knew that it was quite correct ; that everything had happened so ; that there he was , alone again , when all the other boys had gone home for the jolly holidays .
He was not reading now , but walking up and down despairingly .
looked at the , and with a mournful shaking of his head , glanced anxiously towards the door .
It opened ; and a little girl , much younger than the boy , came darting in , and putting her arms about his neck , and often kissing him , addressed him as her `` Dear , dear brother . ''
`` I have come to bring you home , dear brother ! ''
said the child , clapping her tiny hands , and bending down to laugh .
`` To bring you home , home , home ! ''
said the child , brimful of glee .
`` Home , for good and all .
, for ever and ever .
is so much kinder than he used to be , that home 's like !
He spoke so gently to me one dear night when I was going to bed , that I was not afraid to ask him once more if you might come home ; and he said Yes , you should ; and sent me in a coach to bring you .
And you 're to be a man ! ''
said the child , opening her eyes , `` and are never to come back here ; but first , we 're to be together all the long , and have the merriest time in all the world . ''
`` You are quite a woman , little Fan ! ''
She clapped her hands and laughed , and tried to touch his head ; but being too little , laughed again , and stood on tiptoe to embrace him .
Then she began to drag him , in her childish eagerness , towards the door ; and he , nothing loth to go , accompanied her .
A terrible voice in the hall cried , `` Bring down 's box , there ! ''
and in the hall appeared the schoolmaster himself , who glared on with a ferocious condescension , and threw him into a dreadful state of mind by shaking hands with him .
He then conveyed him and his sister into the veriest old well of a shivering best-parlour that ever was seen , where the maps upon the wall , and the celestial and terrestrial globes in the windows , were waxy with cold .
Here he produced a decanter of curiously light wine , and a block of curiously heavy cake , and administered instalments of those dainties to the young people : at the same time , sending out a meagre servant to offer a glass of `` something '' to the postboy , who answered that he thanked the gentleman , but if it was the same tap as he had tasted before , he had rather not .
's trunk being by this time tied on to the top of the chaise , the children bade the schoolmaster good-bye right willingly ; and getting into it , drove gaily down the garden-sweep : the quick wheels dashing the hoar-frost and snow from off the dark leaves of the evergreens like spray .
`` Always a delicate creature , whom a breath might have withered , '' said the .
`` But she had a large heart ! ''
`` So she had , '' cried .
I will not gainsay it , .
`` She died a woman , '' said the , `` and had , as I think , children . ''
seemed uneasy in his mind ; and answered briefly , `` Yes . ''
Although they had but that moment left the school behind them , they were now in the busy thoroughfares of a city , where shadowy passengers passed and repassed ; where shadowy carts and coaches battled for the way , and all the strife and tumult of a real city were .
It was made plain enough , by the dressing of the shops , that here too it was time again ; but it was evening , and the streets were lighted up .
The stopped at a certain warehouse door , and asked if he knew it .
At sight of an old gentleman in a Welsh wig , sitting behind such a high desk , that if he had been two inches taller he must have knocked his head against the ceiling , cried in great excitement : `` Why , it 's old Fezziwig !
Bless his heart ; it 's alive again ! ''
laid down his pen , and looked up at the clock , which pointed to the hour of seven .
He rubbed his hands ; adjusted his capacious waistcoat ; laughed all over himself , from his shoes to his organ of benevolence ; and called out in a comfortable , oily , rich , fat , jovial voice : `` Yo ho , there !
's former self , now grown a young man , came briskly in , accompanied by his fellow-'prentice .
`` , to be sure ! ''
said to the .
He was very much attached to me , was .
Let 's have the shutters up , '' cried old Fezziwig , with a sharp clap of his hands , `` before a man can say ! ''
You would n't believe how those two fellows went at it !
They charged into the street with the shutters -- one , two , three -- had 'em up in their places -- four , five , six -- barred 'em and pinned 'em -- seven , eight , nine -- and came back before you could have got to twelve , panting like race-horses .
cried old Fezziwig , skipping down from the high desk , with wonderful agility .
`` Clear away , my lads , and let 's have lots of room here !
There was nothing they would n't have cleared away , or could n't have cleared away , with old Fezziwig looking on .
It was done in a minute .
Every movable was packed off , as if it were dismissed from public life for evermore ; the floor was swept and watered , the lamps were trimmed , fuel was heaped upon the fire ; and the warehouse was as snug , and warm , and dry , and bright a ball-room , as you would desire to see upon a winter 's night .
In came a fiddler with a music-book , and went up to the lofty desk , and made an orchestra of it , and tuned like fifty stomach-aches .
In came Mrs. Fezziwig , one vast substantial smile .
In came the three , beaming and lovable .
In came the six young followers whose hearts they broke .
In came all the young men and women employed in the business .
In came the housemaid , with her cousin , the baker .
In came the cook , with her brother 's particular friend , the milkman .
In came the boy from over the way , who was suspected of not having board enough from his master ; trying to hide himself behind the girl from next door but one , who was proved to have had her ears pulled by her mistress .
In they all came , one after another ; some shyly , some boldly , some gracefully , some awkwardly , some pushing , some pulling ; in they all came , anyhow and everyhow .
Away they all went , twenty couple at once ; hands half round and back again the other way ; down the middle and up again ; round and round in various stages of affectionate grouping ; old top couple always turning up in the wrong place ; new top couple starting off again , as soon as they got there ; all top couples at last , and not a bottom one to help them !
When this result was brought about , old Fezziwig , clapping his hands to stop the dance , cried out , `` Well done ! ''
and the fiddler plunged his hot face into a pot of porter , especially provided for that purpose .
But scorning rest , upon his reappearance , he instantly began again , though there were no dancers yet , as if the other fiddler had been carried home , exhausted , on a shutter , and he were a bran-new man resolved to beat him out of sight , or perish .
There were more dances , and there were forfeits , and more dances , and there was cake , and there was negus , and there was a great piece of , and there was a great piece of , and there were mince-pies , and plenty of beer .
But the great effect of the evening came after the and , when the fiddler ( an artful dog , mind !
The sort of man who knew his business better than you or I could have told it him ! )
struck up `` de . ''
Then old stood out to dance with Mrs. Fezziwig .
Top couple , too ; with a good stiff piece of work cut out for them ; three or four and twenty pair of partners ; people who were not to be trifled with ; people who would dance , and had no notion of walking .
But if they had been twice as many -- ah , four times -- old Fezziwig would have been a match for them , and so would Mrs. Fezziwig .
As to her , she was worthy to be his partner in every sense of the term .
If that 's not high praise , tell me higher , and I 'll use it .
A positive light appeared to issue from 's calves .
They shone in every part of the dance like moons .
You could n't have predicted , at any given time , what would have become of them next .
And when old Fezziwig and Mrs. had gone all through the dance ; advance and retire , both hands to your partner , bow and curtsey , corkscrew , thread-the-needle , and back again to your place ; `` cut '' -- cut so deftly , that he appeared to wink with his legs , and came upon his feet again without a stagger .
When the clock struck eleven , this domestic ball broke up .
and Mrs. took their stations , one on either side of the door , and shaking hands with every person individually as he or she went out , wished him or her a .
When everybody had retired but the two 'prentices , they did the same to them ; and thus the cheerful voices died away , and the lads were left to their beds ; which were under a counter in the back-shop .
During the whole of this time , had acted like a man out of his wits .
His heart and soul were in the scene , and with his former self .
He corroborated everything , remembered everything , enjoyed everything , and underwent the strangest agitation .
It was not until now , when the bright faces of his former self and were turned from them , that he remembered the , and became conscious that it was looking full upon him , while the light upon its head burnt very clear .
`` A small matter , '' said the , `` to make these silly folks so full of gratitude . ''
The signed to him to listen to the two apprentices , who were pouring out their hearts in praise of : and when he had done so , said , `` Why !
He has spent but a few pounds of your mortal money : three or four perhaps .
Is that so much that he deserves this praise ? ''
`` It is n't that , '' said , heated by the remark , and speaking unconsciously like his former , not his latter , self .
He has the power to render us happy or unhappy ; to make our service light or burdensome ; a pleasure or a toil .
Say that his power lies in words and looks ; in things so slight and insignificant that it is impossible to add and count 'em up : what then ?
The happiness he gives , is quite as great as if it cost a fortune . ''
He felt the 's glance , and stopped .
I should like to be able to say a word or two to my clerk just now .
His former self turned down the lamps as he gave utterance to the wish ; and and the again stood side by side in the open air .
`` My time grows short , '' observed the .
This was not addressed to , or to any one whom he could see , but it produced an immediate effect .
For again saw himself .
He was older now ; a man in the prime of life .
His face had not the harsh and rigid lines of later years ; but it had begun to wear the signs of care and avarice .
There was an eager , greedy , restless motion in the eye , which showed the passion that had taken root , and where the shadow of the growing tree would fall .
He was not alone , but sat by the side of a fair young girl in a mourning-dress : in whose eyes there were tears , which sparkled in the light that shone out of the of .
`` It matters little , '' she said , softly .
Another idol has displaced me ; and if it can cheer and comfort you in time to come , as I would have tried to do , I have no just cause to grieve . ''
`` What has displaced you ? ''
`` This is the even-handed dealing of the world ! ''
`` There is nothing on which it is so hard as poverty ; and there is nothing it professes to condemn with such severity as the pursuit of wealth ! ''
`` You fear the world too much , '' she answered , gently .
`` All your other hopes have merged into the hope of being beyond the chance of its sordid reproach .
I have seen your nobler aspirations fall off one by one , until the master-passion , , engrosses you .
`` Even if I have grown so much wiser , what then ?
I am not changed towards you . ''
`` Our contract is an old one .
It was made when we were both poor and content to be so , until , in good season , we could improve our worldly fortune by our patient industry .
When it was made , you were another man . ''
`` I was a boy , '' he said impatiently .
`` Your own feeling tells you that you were not what you are , '' she returned .
That which promised happiness when we were one in heart , is fraught with misery now that we are two .
How often and how keenly I have thought of this , I will not say .
It is enough that I have thought of it , and can release you . ''
`` Have I ever sought release ? ''
`` In a changed nature ; in an altered spirit ; in another atmosphere of life ; another Hope as its great end .
In everything that made my love of any worth or value in your sight .
If this had never been between us , '' said the girl , looking mildly , but with steadiness , upon him ; `` tell me , would you seek me out and try to win me now ?
He seemed to yield to the justice of this supposition , in spite of himself .
But he said with a struggle , `` You think not . ''
`` I would gladly think otherwise if I could , '' she answered , `` Heaven knows !
When I have learned a Truth like this , I know how strong and irresistible it must be .
But if you were free to-day , to-morrow , yesterday , can even I believe that you would choose a dowerless girl -- you who , in your very confidence with her , weigh everything by : or , choosing her , if for a moment you were false enough to your one guiding principle to do so , do I not know that your repentance and regret would surely follow ?
I do ; and I release you .
With a full heart , for the love of him you once were . ''
He was about to speak ; but with her head turned from him , she resumed .
`` You may -- the memory of what is past half makes me hope you will -- have pain in this .
A very , very brief time , and you will dismiss the recollection of it , gladly , as an unprofitable dream , from which it happened well that you awoke .
May you be happy in the life you have chosen ! ''
She left him , and they parted .
said , `` show me no more !
Why do you delight to torture me ? ''
I do n't wish to see it .
But the relentless pinioned him in both his arms , and forced him to observe what happened next .
They were in another scene and place ; a room , not very large or handsome , but full of comfort .
Near to the winter fire sat a beautiful young girl , so like that last that believed it was the same , until he saw her , now a comely matron , sitting opposite her daughter .
The noise in this room was perfectly tumultuous , for there were more children there , than in his agitated state of mind could count ; and , unlike the celebrated herd in the poem , they were not forty children conducting themselves like one , but every child was conducting itself like forty .
The consequences were uproarious beyond belief ; but no one seemed to care ; on the contrary , the mother and daughter laughed heartily , and enjoyed it very much ; and the latter , soon beginning to mingle in the sports , got pillaged by the young brigands most ruthlessly .
What would I not have given to be one of them !
Though I never could have been so rude , no , no !
I would n't for the wealth of all the world have crushed that braided hair , and torn it down ; and for the precious little shoe , I would n't have plucked it off , bless my soul !
As to measuring her waist in sport , as they did , bold young brood , I could n't have done it ; I should have expected my arm to have grown round it for a punishment , and never come straight again .
And yet I should have dearly liked , I own , to have touched her lips ; to have questioned her , that she might have opened them ; to have looked upon the lashes of her downcast eyes , and never raised a blush ; to have let loose waves of hair , an inch of which would be a keepsake beyond price : in short , I should have liked , I do confess , to have had the lightest licence of a child , and yet to have been man enough to know its value .
But now a knocking at the door was heard , and such a rush immediately ensued that she with laughing face and plundered dress was borne towards it the centre of a flushed and boisterous group , just in time to greet the father , who came home attended by a man laden with toys and presents .
Then the shouting and the struggling , and the onslaught that was made on the defenceless porter !
The scaling him with chairs for ladders to dive into his pockets , despoil him of brown-paper parcels , hold on tight by his cravat , hug him round his neck , pommel his back , and kick his legs in irrepressible affection !
The shouts of wonder and delight with which the development of every package was received !
The terrible announcement that the baby had been taken in the act of putting a doll 's frying-pan into his mouth , and was more than suspected of having swallowed a fictitious turkey , glued on a wooden platter !
The immense relief of finding this a false alarm !
The joy , and gratitude , and ecstasy !
They are all indescribable alike .
It is enough that by degrees the children and their emotions got out of the parlour , and by one stair at a time , up to the top of the house ; where they went to bed , and so subsided .
And now looked on more attentively than ever , when the master of the house , having his daughter leaning fondly on him , sat down with her and her mother at his own fireside ; and when he thought that such another creature , quite as graceful and as full of promise , might have called him father , and been a spring-time in the haggard winter of his life , his sight grew very dim indeed .
`` , '' said the husband , turning to his wife with a smile , `` I saw an old friend of yours this afternoon . ''
she added in the same breath , laughing as he laughed .
I passed his office window ; and as it was not shut up , and he had a candle inside , I could scarcely help seeing him .
His partner lies upon the point of death , I hear ; and there he sat alone .
Quite alone in the world , I do believe . ''
said in a broken voice , `` remove me from this place . ''
`` I told you these were shadows of the things that have been , '' said the .
`` That they are what they are , do not blame me ! ''
exclaimed , `` I can not bear it ! ''
He turned upon the , and seeing that it looked upon him with a face , in which in some strange way there were fragments of all the faces it had shown him , wrestled with it .
In the struggle , if that can be called a struggle in which the with no visible resistance on its own part was undisturbed by any effort of its adversary , observed that its light was burning high and bright ; and dimly connecting that with its influence over him , he seized the extinguisher-cap , and by a sudden action pressed it down upon its head .
The dropped beneath it , so that the extinguisher covered its whole form ; but though pressed it down with all his force , he could not hide the light : which streamed from under it , in an unbroken flood upon the ground .
He was conscious of being exhausted , and overcome by an irresistible drowsiness ; and , further , of being in his own bedroom .
He gave the cap a parting squeeze , in which his hand relaxed ; and had barely time to reel to bed , before he sank into a heavy sleep .
AWAKING in the middle of a prodigiously tough snore , and sitting up in bed to get his thoughts together , had no occasion to be told that the bell was again upon the stroke of One .
He felt that he was restored to consciousness in the right nick of time , for the especial purpose of holding a conference with the second messenger despatched to him through 's intervention .
But finding that he turned uncomfortably cold when he began to wonder which of his curtains this new spectre would draw back , he put them every one aside with his own hands ; and lying down again , established a sharp look-out all round the bed .
For he wished to challenge the on the moment of its appearance , and did not wish to be taken by surprise , and made nervous .
Gentlemen of the free-and-easy sort , who plume themselves on being acquainted with a move or two , and being usually equal to the time-of-day , express the wide range of their capacity for adventure by observing that they are good for anything from pitch-and-toss to manslaughter ; between which opposite extremes , no doubt , there lies a tolerably wide and comprehensive range of subjects .
Without venturing for quite as hardily as this , I do n't mind calling on you to believe that he was ready for a good broad field of strange appearances , and that nothing between a baby and rhinoceros would have astonished him very much .
Now , being prepared for almost anything , he was not by any means prepared for nothing ; and , consequently , when the struck One , and no shape appeared , he was taken with a violent fit of trembling .
Five minutes , ten minutes , a quarter of an hour went by , yet nothing came .
All this time , he lay upon his bed , the very core and centre of a blaze of ruddy light , which streamed upon it when the clock proclaimed the hour ; and which , being only light , was more alarming than a dozen ghosts , as he was powerless to make out what it meant , or would be at ; and was sometimes apprehensive that he might be at that very moment an interesting case of spontaneous combustion , without having the consolation of knowing it .
At last , however , he began to think -- as you or I would have thought at first ; for it is always the person not in the predicament who knows what ought to have been done in it , and would unquestionably have done it too -- at last , I say , he began to think that the source and secret of this ghostly light might be in the adjoining room , from whence , on further tracing it , it seemed to shine .
This idea taking full possession of his mind , he got up softly and shuffled in his slippers to the door .
The moment 's hand was on the lock , a strange voice called him by his name , and bade him enter .
It was his own room .
There was no doubt about that .
But it had undergone a surprising transformation .
The walls and ceiling were so hung with living green , that it looked a perfect grove ; from every part of which , bright gleaming berries glistened .
The crisp leaves of holly , mistletoe , and ivy reflected back the light , as if so many little mirrors had been scattered there ; and such a mighty blaze went roaring up the chimney , as that dull petrification of a hearth had never known in 's time , or 's , or for many and many a winter season gone .
Heaped up on the floor , to form a kind of throne , were turkeys , geese , game , poultry , brawn , great joints of meat , sucking-pigs , long wreaths of sausages , mince-pies , plum-puddings , barrels of oysters , red-hot chestnuts , cherry-cheeked apples , juicy oranges , luscious pears , immense twelfth-cakes , and seething bowls of punch , that made the chamber dim with their delicious steam .
In easy state upon this couch , there sat a jolly , glorious to see ; who bore a glowing torch , in shape not unlike 's horn , and held it up , high up , to shed its light on , as he came peeping round the door .
and know me better , man ! ''
entered timidly , and hung his head before this Spirit .
He was not the dogged Scrooge he had been ; and though the 's eyes were clear and kind , he did not like to meet them .
`` I am the of , '' said the .
It was clothed in one simple green robe , or mantle , bordered with white fur .
This garment hung so loosely on the figure , that its capacious breast was bare , as if disdaining to be warded or concealed by any artifice .
Its feet , observable beneath the ample folds of the garment , were also bare ; and on its head it wore no other covering than a holly wreath , set here and there with shining icicles .
Its dark brown curls were long and free ; free as its genial face , its sparkling eye , its open hand , its cheery voice , its unconstrained demeanour , and its joyful air .
Girded round its middle was an antique scabbard ; but no sword was in it , and the ancient sheath was eaten up with rust .
`` You have never seen the like of me before ! ''
`` Never , '' made answer to it .
`` Have never walked forth with the younger members of my family ; meaning ( for I am very young ) my elder brothers born in these later years ? ''
`` I do n't think I have , '' said .
`` I am afraid I have not .
Have you had many brothers , ? ''
`` More than eighteen hundred , '' said the .
`` A tremendous family to provide for ! ''
The of rose .
`` , '' said submissively , `` conduct me where you will .
I went forth last night on compulsion , and I learnt a lesson which is working now .
To-night , if you have aught to teach me , let me profit by it . ''
Scrooge did as he was told , and held it fast .
Holly , mistletoe , red berries , ivy , turkeys , geese , game , poultry , brawn , meat , pigs , sausages , oysters , pies , puddings , fruit , and punch , all vanished instantly .
So did the room , the fire , the ruddy glow , the hour of night , and they stood in the city streets on Christmas morning , where ( for the weather was severe ) the people made a rough , but brisk and not unpleasant kind of music , in scraping the snow from the pavement in front of their dwellings , and from the tops of their houses , whence it was mad delight to the boys to see it come plumping down into the road below , and splitting into artificial little snow-storms .
The house fronts looked black enough , and the windows blacker , contrasting with the smooth white sheet of snow upon the roofs , and with the dirtier snow upon the ground ; which last deposit had been ploughed up in deep furrows by the heavy wheels of carts and waggons ; furrows that crossed and re-crossed each other hundreds of times where the great streets branched off ; and made intricate channels , hard to trace in the thick yellow mud and icy water .
The sky was gloomy , and the shortest streets were choked up with a dingy mist , half thawed , half frozen , whose heavier particles descended in a shower of sooty atoms , as if all the chimneys in had , by one consent , caught fire , and were blazing away to their dear hearts ' content .
There was nothing very cheerful in the climate or the town , and yet was there an air of cheerfulness abroad that the clearest summer air and brightest summer sun might have endeavoured to diffuse in vain .
For , the people who were shovelling away on the housetops were jovial and full of glee ; calling out to one another from the parapets , and now and then exchanging a facetious snowball -- better-natured missile far than many a wordy jest -- laughing heartily if it went right and not less heartily if it went wrong .
The poulterers ' shops were still half open , and the fruiterers ' were radiant in their glory .
There were great , round , pot-bellied baskets of chestnuts , shaped like the waistcoats of jolly old gentlemen , lolling at the doors , and tumbling out into the street in their apoplectic opulence .
There were ruddy , brown-faced , broad-girthed Onions , shining in the fatness of their growth like , and winking from their shelves in wanton slyness at the girls as they went by , and glanced demurely at the hung-up mistletoe .
There were pears and apples , clustered high in blooming pyramids ; there were bunches of grapes , made , in the shopkeepers ' benevolence to dangle from conspicuous hooks , that people 's mouths might water gratis as they passed ; there were piles of filberts , mossy and brown , recalling , in their fragrance , ancient walks among the woods , and pleasant shufflings ankle deep through withered leaves ; there were , squat and swarthy , setting off the yellow of the oranges and lemons , and , in the great compactness of their juicy persons , urgently entreating and beseeching to be carried home in paper bags and eaten after dinner .
The very gold and silver fish , set forth among these choice fruits in a bowl , though members of a dull and stagnant-blooded race , appeared to know that there was something going on ; and , to a fish , went gasping round and round their little world in slow and passionless excitement .
nearly closed , with perhaps two shutters down , or one ; but through those gaps such glimpses !
It was not alone that the scales descending on the counter made a merry sound , or that the twine and roller parted company so briskly , or that the canisters were rattled up and down like juggling tricks , or even that the blended scents of tea and coffee were so grateful to the nose , or even that the raisins were so plentiful and rare , the almonds so extremely white , the sticks of cinnamon so long and straight , the other spices so delicious , the candied fruits so caked and spotted with molten sugar as to make the coldest lookers-on feel faint and subsequently bilious .
Nor was it that the figs were moist and pulpy , or that the plums blushed in modest tartness from their highly-decorated boxes , or that everything was good to eat and in its Christmas dress ; but the customers were all so hurried and so eager in the hopeful promise of the day , that they tumbled up against each other at the door , crashing their wicker baskets wildly , and left their purchases upon the counter , and came running back to fetch them , and committed hundreds of the like mistakes , in the best humour possible ; while the and his people were so frank and fresh that the polished hearts with which they fastened their aprons behind might have been their own , worn outside for general inspection , and for daws to peck at if they chose .
But soon the steeples called good people all , to church and chapel , and away they came , flocking through the streets in their best clothes , and with their gayest faces .
And at the same time there emerged from scores of bye-streets , lanes , and nameless turnings , innumerable people , carrying their dinners to the bakers ' shops .
The sight of these poor revellers appeared to interest the very much , for he stood with beside him in a baker 's doorway , and taking off the covers as their bearers passed , sprinkled incense on their dinners from his torch .
And it was a very uncommon kind of torch , for once or twice when there were angry words between some dinner-carriers who had jostled each other , he shed a few drops of water on them from it , and their good humour was restored directly .
For they said , it was a shame to quarrel upon Christmas Day .
God love it , so it was !
In time the bells ceased , and the bakers were shut up ; and yet there was a genial shadowing forth of all these dinners and the progress of their cooking , in the thawed blotch of wet above each baker 's oven ; where the pavement smoked as if its stones were cooking too .
`` Is there a peculiar flavour in what you sprinkle from your torch ? ''
`` Would it apply to any kind of dinner on this day ? ''
To a poor one most . ''
`` Why to a poor one most ? ''
`` Because it needs it most . ''
`` , '' said , after a moment 's thought , `` I wonder you , of all the beings in the many worlds about us , should desire to cramp these people 's opportunities of innocent enjoyment . ''
`` You would deprive them of their means of dining every seventh day , often the only day on which they can be said to dine at all , '' said .
`` You seek to close these places on the Day ? ''
`` And it comes to the same thing . ''
`` Forgive me if I am wrong .
It has been done in your name , or at least in that of your family , '' said .
`` There are some upon this earth of yours , '' returned the , `` who lay claim to know us , and who do their deeds of passion , pride , ill-will , hatred , envy , bigotry , and selfishness in our name , who are as strange to us and all our kith and kin , as if they had never lived .
Remember that , and charge their doings on themselves , not us . ''
promised that he would ; and they went on , invisible , as they had been before , into the suburbs of the town .
It was a remarkable quality of the ( which had observed at the baker 's ) , that notwithstanding his gigantic size , he could accommodate himself to any place with ease ; and that he stood beneath a low roof quite as gracefully and like a supernatural creature , as it was possible he could have done in any lofty hall .
And perhaps it was the pleasure the good had in showing off this power of his , or else it was his own kind , generous , hearty nature , and his sympathy with all poor men , that led him straight to 's clerk 's ; for there he went , and took with him , holding to his robe ; and on the threshold of the door the smiled , and stopped to bless 's dwelling with the sprinkling of his torch .
had but fifteen `` '' a-week himself ; he pocketed on Saturdays but fifteen copies of his name ; and yet the Present blessed his four-roomed house !
Then up rose Mrs. Cratchit , 's wife , dressed out but poorly in a twice-turned gown , but brave in ribbons , which are cheap and make a goodly show for sixpence ; and she laid the cloth , assisted by , second of her daughters , also brave in ribbons ; while plunged a fork into the saucepan of potatoes , and getting the corners of his monstrous shirt collar ( 's private property , conferred upon his son and heir in honour of the day ) into his mouth , rejoiced to find himself so gallantly attired , and yearned to show his linen in the fashionable .
And now two smaller Cratchits , boy and girl , came tearing in , screaming that outside the baker 's they had smelt the goose , and known it for their own ; and basking in luxurious thoughts of sage and onion , these young Cratchits danced about the table , and exalted to the skies , while he ( not proud , although his collars nearly choked him ) blew the fire , until the slow potatoes bubbling up , knocked loudly at the saucepan-lid to be let out and peeled .
`` What has ever got your precious father then ? ''
`` And your brother , !
And war n't as late last Christmas Day by half-an-hour ? ''
said a girl , appearing as she spoke .
cried the two young Cratchits .
There 's such a goose , ! ''
`` Why , bless your heart alive , my dear , how late you are ! ''
said Mrs. Cratchit , kissing her a dozen times , and taking off her shawl and bonnet for her with officious zeal .
`` We 'd a deal of work to finish up last night , '' replied the girl , `` and had to clear away this morning , mother ! ''
Never mind so long as you are come , '' said Mrs. Cratchit .
`` Sit ye down before the fire , my dear , and have a warm , bless ye ! ''
There 's father coming , '' cried the two young Cratchits , who were everywhere at once .
So hid herself , and in came little , the father , with at least three feet of comforter exclusive of the fringe , hanging down before him ; and his threadbare clothes darned up and brushed , to look seasonable ; and upon his shoulder .
for , he bore a little crutch , and had his limbs supported by an iron frame !
cried , looking round .
`` Not coming , '' said Mrs. Cratchit .
said , with a sudden declension in his high spirits ; for he had been 's blood horse all the way from church , and had come home rampant .
`` Not coming upon Day ! ''
did n't like to see him disappointed , if it were only in joke ; so she came out prematurely from behind the closet door , and ran into his arms , while the two young Cratchits hustled , and bore him off into the wash-house , that he might hear the pudding singing in the copper .
`` And how did little Tim behave ? ''
asked Mrs. Cratchit , when she had rallied on his credulity , and had hugged his daughter to his heart 's content .
`` As good as gold , '' said , `` and better .
Somehow he gets thoughtful , sitting by himself so much , and thinks the strangest things you ever heard .
He told me , coming home , that he hoped the people saw him in the church , because he was a cripple , and it might be pleasant to them to remember upon Christmas Day , who made lame beggars walk , and blind men see . ''
's voice was tremulous when he told them this , and trembled more when he said that was growing strong and hearty .
His active little crutch was heard upon the floor , and back came before another word was spoken , escorted by his brother and sister to his stool before the fire ; and while , turning up his cuffs -- as if , poor fellow , they were capable of being made more shabby -- compounded some hot mixture in a jug with gin and lemons , and stirred it round and round and put it on the hob to simmer ; , and the two ubiquitous young Cratchits went to fetch the goose , with which they soon returned in high procession .
Such a bustle ensued that you might have thought a goose the rarest of all birds ; a feathered phenomenon , to which a black swan was a matter of course -- and in truth it was something very like it in that house .
Mrs. made the gravy ( ready beforehand in a little saucepan ) hissing hot ; mashed the potatoes with incredible vigour ; sweetened up the apple-sauce ; dusted the hot plates ; took beside him in a tiny corner at the table ; the two young Cratchits set chairs for everybody , not forgetting themselves , and mounting guard upon their posts , crammed spoons into their mouths , lest they should shriek for goose before their turn came to be helped .
At last the dishes were set on , and grace was said .
It was succeeded by a breathless pause , as Mrs. Cratchit , looking slowly all along the carving-knife , prepared to plunge it in the breast ; but when she did , and when the long expected gush of stuffing issued forth , one murmur of delight arose all round the board , and even , excited by the two young Cratchits , beat on the table with the handle of his knife , and feebly cried !
There never was such a goose .
said he did n't believe there ever was such a goose cooked .
Its tenderness and flavour , size and cheapness , were the themes of universal admiration .
Eked out by apple-sauce and mashed potatoes , it was a sufficient dinner for the whole family ; indeed , as Mrs. said with great delight ( surveying one small atom of a bone upon the dish ) , they had n't ate it all at last !
Yet every one had had enough , and the youngest Cratchits in particular , were steeped in sage and onion to the eyebrows !
But now , the plates being changed by , Mrs. left the room alone -- too nervous to bear witnesses -- to take the pudding up and bring it in .
Suppose it should not be done enough !
Suppose it should break in turning out !
somebody should have got over the wall of the back-yard , and stolen it , while they were merry with the goose -- a supposition at which the two young Cratchits became livid !
All sorts of horrors were supposed .
A great deal of steam !
The pudding was out of the copper .
A smell like a washing-day !
A smell like an eating-house and a pastrycook 's next door to each other , with a laundress 's next door to that !
In half a minute Mrs. entered -- flushed , but smiling proudly -- with the pudding , like a speckled cannon-ball , so hard and firm , blazing in half of half-a-quartern of ignited brandy , and bedight with holly stuck into the top .
said , and calmly too , that he regarded it as the greatest success achieved by Mrs. Cratchit since their marriage .
Mrs. said that now the weight was off her mind , she would confess she had had her doubts about the quantity of flour .
Everybody had something to say about it , but nobody said or thought it was at all a small pudding for a large family .
It would have been flat heresy to do so .
Any Cratchit would have blushed to hint at such a thing .
At last the dinner was all done , the cloth was cleared , the hearth swept , and the fire made up .
The compound in the jug being tasted , and considered perfect , apples and oranges were put upon the table , and a shovel-full of chestnuts on the fire .
Then all the family drew round the hearth , in what called a circle , meaning half a one ; and at 's elbow stood the family display of glass .
Two tumblers , and a custard-cup without a handle .
These held the hot stuff from the jug , however , as well as golden goblets would have done ; and served it out with beaming looks , while the chestnuts on the fire sputtered and cracked noisily .
Then proposed : `` A Christmas to us all , my dears .
Which all the family re-echoed .
`` God bless us every one ! ''
said , the last of all .
He sat very close to his father 's side upon his little stool .
held his withered little hand in his , as if he loved the child , and wished to keep him by his side , and dreaded that he might be taken from him .
`` , '' said , with an interest he had never felt before , `` tell me if will live . ''
`` I see a vacant seat , '' replied the , `` in the poor chimney-corner , and a crutch without an owner , carefully preserved .
If these shadows remain unaltered by the , the child will die . ''
say he will be spared . ''
`` If these shadows remain unaltered by the , none other of my race , '' returned the , `` will find him here .
If he be like to die , he had better do it , and decrease the surplus population . ''
hung his head to hear his own words quoted by the , and was overcome with penitence and grief .
`` Man , '' said the , `` if man you be in heart , not adamant , forbear that wicked cant until you have discovered What the surplus is , and Where it is .
Will you decide what men shall live , what men shall die ?
It may be , that in the sight of , you are more worthless and less fit to live than millions like this poor man 's child .
to hear the Insect on the leaf pronouncing on the too much life among his hungry brothers in the dust ! ''
bent before the 's rebuke , and trembling cast his eyes upon the ground .
But he raised them speedily , on hearing his own name .
said ; `` I 'll give you , the of the Feast ! ''
`` The of the Feast indeed ! ''
`` I wish I had him here .
I 'd give him a piece of my mind to feast upon , and I hope he 'd have a good appetite for it . ''
`` My dear , '' said , `` the children !
`` It should be Day , I am sure , '' said she , `` on which one drinks the health of such an odious , stingy , hard , unfeeling man as .
You know he is , !
knows it better than you do , poor fellow ! ''
`` My dear , '' was 's mild answer , `` Christmas Day . ''
`` I 'll drink his health for your sake and the Day 's , '' said Mrs. Cratchit , `` not for his .
A merry and a happy new year !
He 'll be very merry and very happy , I have no doubt ! ''
The children drank the toast after her .
It was the first of their proceedings which had no heartiness .
drank it last of all , but he did n't care twopence for it .
was the of the family .
The mention of his name cast a dark shadow on the party , which was not dispelled for full five minutes .
After it had passed away , they were ten times merrier than before , from the mere relief of Scrooge the being done with .
told them how he had a situation in his eye for , which would bring in , if obtained , full five-and-sixpence weekly .
The two young Cratchits laughed tremendously at the idea of 's being a man of business ; and himself looked thoughtfully at the fire from between his collars , as if he were deliberating what particular investments he should favour when he came into the receipt of that bewildering income .
, who was a poor apprentice at a milliner 's , then told them what kind of work she had to do , and how many hours she worked at a stretch , and how she meant to lie abed to-morrow morning for a good long rest ; to-morrow being a holiday she passed at home .
Also how she had seen a countess and a lord some days before , and how the lord `` was much about as tall as ; '' at which pulled up his collars so high that you could n't have seen his head if you had been there .
All this time the chestnuts and the jug went round and round ; and by-and-bye they had a song , about a lost child travelling in the snow , from , who had a plaintive little voice , and sang it very well indeed .
There was nothing of high mark in this .
They were not a handsome family ; they were not well dressed ; their shoes were far from being water-proof ; their clothes were scanty ; and might have known , and very likely did , the inside of a pawnbroker 's .
But , they were happy , grateful , pleased with one another , and contented with the time ; and when they faded , and looked happier yet in the bright sprinklings of the 's torch at parting , had his eye upon them , and especially on , until the last .
By this time it was getting dark , and snowing pretty heavily ; and as and the went along the streets , the brightness of the roaring fires in kitchens , parlours , and all sorts of rooms , was wonderful .
Here , the flickering of the blaze showed preparations for a cosy dinner , with hot plates baking through and through before the fire , and deep red curtains , ready to be drawn to shut out cold and darkness .
There all the children of the house were running out into the snow to meet their married sisters , brothers , cousins , uncles , aunts , and be the first to greet them .
Here , again , were shadows on the window-blind of guests assembling ; and there a group of handsome girls , all hooded and fur-booted , and all chattering at once , tripped lightly off to some near neighbour 's house ; where , woe upon the single man who saw them enter -- artful witches , well they knew it -- in a glow !
But , if you had judged from the numbers of people on their way to friendly gatherings , you might have thought that no one was at home to give them welcome when they got there , instead of every house expecting company , and piling up its fires half-chimney high .
Blessings on it , how the exulted !
How it bared its breadth of breast , and opened its capacious palm , and floated on , outpouring , with a generous hand , its bright and harmless mirth on everything within its reach !
The very lamplighter , who ran on before , dotting the dusky street with specks of light , and who was dressed to spend the evening somewhere , laughed out loudly as the passed , though little kenned the lamplighter that he had any company but !
And now , without a word of warning from the , they stood upon a bleak and desert moor , where monstrous masses of rude stone were cast about , as though it were the burial-place of giants ; and water spread itself wheresoever it listed , or would have done so , but for the frost that held it prisoner ; and nothing grew but moss and furze , and coarse rank grass .
Down in the west the setting sun had left a streak of fiery red , which glared upon the desolation for an instant , like a sullen eye , and frowning lower , lower , lower yet , was lost in the thick gloom of darkest night .
`` A place where Miners live , who labour in the bowels of the earth , '' returned the .
A light shone from the window of a hut , and swiftly they advanced towards it .
Passing through the wall of mud and stone , they found a cheerful company assembled round a glowing fire .
An old , old man and woman , with their children and their children 's children , and another generation beyond that , all decked out gaily in their holiday attire .
The old man , in a voice that seldom rose above the howling of the wind upon the barren waste , was singing them a Christmas song -- it had been a very old song when he was a boy -- and from time to time they all joined in the chorus .
So surely as they raised their voices , the old man got quite blithe and loud ; and so surely as they stopped , his vigour sank again .
The did not tarry here , but bade hold his robe , and passing on above the moor , sped -- whither ?
To 's horror , looking back , he saw the last of the land , a frightful range of rocks , behind them ; and his ears were deafened by the thundering of water , as it rolled and roared , and raged among the dreadful caverns it had worn , and fiercely tried to undermine the earth .
Built upon a dismal reef of sunken rocks , some league or so from shore , on which the waters chafed and dashed , the wild year through , there stood a solitary lighthouse .
heaps of sea-weed clung to its base , and storm-birds -- born of the wind one might suppose , as sea-weed of the water -- rose and fell about it , like the waves they skimmed .
But even here , two men who watched the light had made a fire , that through the loophole in the thick stone wall shed out a ray of brightness on the awful sea .
Joining their horny hands over the rough table at which they sat , they wished each other in their can of grog ; and one of them : the elder , too , with his face all damaged and scarred with hard weather , as the figure-head of an old ship might be : struck up a sturdy song that was like a Gale in itself .
Again the sped on , above the black and heaving sea -- on , on -- until , being far away , as he told , from any shore , they lighted on a ship .
They stood beside the helmsman at the wheel , the look-out in the bow , the officers who had the watch ; dark , ghostly figures in their several stations ; but every man among them hummed a Christmas tune , or had a Christmas thought , or spoke below his breath to his companion of some bygone Day , with homeward hopes belonging to it .
And every man on board , waking or sleeping , good or bad , had had a kinder word for another on that day than on any day in the year ; and had shared to some extent in its festivities ; and had remembered those he cared for at a distance , and had known that they delighted to remember him .
It was a great surprise to , while listening to the moaning of the wind , and thinking what a solemn thing it was to move on through the lonely darkness over an unknown abyss , whose depths were secrets as profound as : it was a great surprise to , while thus engaged , to hear a hearty laugh .
It was a much greater surprise to to recognise it as his own nephew 's and to find himself in a bright , dry , gleaming room , with the standing smiling by his side , and looking at that same nephew with approving affability !
If you should happen , by any unlikely chance , to know a man more blest in a laugh than 's nephew , all I can say is , I should like to know him too .
Introduce him to me , and I 'll cultivate his acquaintance .
It is a fair , even-handed , noble adjustment of things , that while there is infection in disease and sorrow , there is nothing in the world so irresistibly contagious as laughter and good-humour .
When 's nephew laughed in this way : holding his sides , rolling his head , and twisting his face into the most extravagant contortions : 's niece , by marriage , laughed as heartily as he .
And their assembled friends being not a bit behindhand , roared out lustily .
`` He said that was a humbug , as I live ! ''
`` More shame for him , Fred ! ''
those women ; they never do anything by halves .
They are always in earnest .
She was very pretty : exceedingly pretty .
With a dimpled , surprised-looking , capital face ; a ripe little mouth , that seemed made to be kissed -- as no doubt it was ; all kinds of good little dots about her chin , that melted into one another when she laughed ; and the sunniest pair of eyes you ever saw in any little creature 's head .
Altogether she was what you would have called provoking , you know ; but satisfactory , too .
`` He 's a comical old fellow , '' said 's nephew , `` that 's the truth : and not so pleasant as he might be .
However , his offences carry their own punishment , and I have nothing to say against him . ''
`` I 'm sure he is very rich , , '' hinted 's niece .
`` At least you always tell me so . ''
`` What of that , my dear ! ''
`` His wealth is of no use to him .
He do n't do any good with it .
He do n't make himself comfortable with it .
He has n't the satisfaction of thinking -- ha , ha , ha ! -- that he is ever going to benefit US with it . ''
`` I have no patience with him , '' observed 's niece .
's niece 's sisters , and all the other ladies , expressed the same opinion .
`` I am sorry for him ; I could n't be angry with him if I tried .
Who suffers by his ill whims !
Here , he takes it into his head to dislike us , and he wo n't come and dine with us .
He do n't lose much of a dinner . ''
`` Indeed , I think he loses a very good dinner , '' interrupted 's niece .
Everybody else said the same , and they must be allowed to have been competent judges , because they had just had dinner ; and , with the dessert upon the table , were clustered round the fire , by lamplight .
I 'm very glad to hear it , '' said 's nephew , `` because I have n't great faith in these young housekeepers .
What do you say , ? ''
had clearly got his eye upon one of 's niece 's sisters , for he answered that a bachelor was a wretched outcast , who had no right to express an opinion on the subject .
's niece 's sister -- the plump one with the lace tucker : not the one with the roses -- blushed .
`` Do go on , , '' said 's niece , clapping her hands .
`` He never finishes what he begins to say !
He is such a ridiculous fellow ! ''
's nephew revelled in another laugh , and as it was impossible to keep the infection off ; though the plump sister tried hard to do it with aromatic vinegar ; his example was unanimously followed .
`` I was only going to say , '' said 's nephew , `` that the consequence of his taking a dislike to us , and not making merry with us , is , as I think , that he loses some pleasant moments , which could do him no harm .
I am sure he loses pleasanter companions than he can find in his own thoughts , either in his mouldy old office , or his dusty chambers .
I mean to give him the same chance every year , whether he likes it or not , for I pity him .
He may rail at till he dies , but he ca n't help thinking better of it -- I defy him -- if he finds me going there , in good temper , year after year , and saying , how are you ?
If it only puts him in the vein to leave his poor clerk fifty pounds , that 's something ; and I think I shook him yesterday . ''
It was their turn to laugh now at the notion of his shaking .
But being thoroughly good-natured , and not much caring what they laughed at , so that they laughed at any rate , he encouraged them in their merriment , and passed the bottle joyously .
After tea , they had some music .
For they were a musical family , and knew what they were about , when they sung a Glee or , I can assure you : especially , who could growl away in the bass like a good one , and never swell the large veins in his forehead , or get red in the face over it .
's niece played well upon the harp ; and played among other tunes a simple little air ( a mere nothing : you might learn to whistle it in two minutes ) , which had been familiar to the child who fetched from the boarding-school , as he had been reminded by the of .
When this strain of music sounded , all the things that had shown him , came upon his mind ; he softened more and more ; and thought that if he could have listened to it often , years ago , he might have cultivated the kindnesses of life for his own happiness with his own hands , without resorting to the sexton 's spade that buried .
But they did n't devote the whole evening to music .
After a while they played at forfeits ; for it is good to be children sometimes , and never better than at , when its mighty was a child himself .
There was first a game at 's buff .
And I no more believe was really blind than I believe he had eyes in his boots .
My opinion is , that it was a done thing between him and 's nephew ; and that the of knew it .
The way he went after that plump sister in the lace tucker , was an outrage on the credulity of human nature .
Knocking down the fire-irons , tumbling over the chairs , bumping against the piano , smothering himself among the curtains , wherever she went , there went he !
He always knew where the plump sister was .
He would n't catch anybody else .
If you had fallen up against him ( as some of them did ) , on purpose , he would have made a feint of endeavouring to seize you , which would have been an affront to your understanding , and would instantly have sidled off in the direction of the plump sister .
She often cried out that it was n't fair ; and it really was not .
But when at last , he caught her ; when , in spite of all her silken rustlings , and her rapid flutterings past him , he got her into a corner whence there was no escape ; then his conduct was the most execrable .
For his pretending not to know her ; his pretending that it was necessary to touch her head-dress , and further to assure himself of her identity by pressing a certain ring upon her finger , and a certain chain about her neck ; was vile , monstrous !
No doubt she told him her opinion of it , when , another blind-man being in office , they were so very confidential together , behind the curtains .
's niece was not one of the blind-man 's buff party , but was made comfortable with a large chair and a footstool , in a snug corner , where the and were close behind her .
But she joined in the forfeits , and loved her love to admiration with all the letters of the alphabet .
Likewise at the game of , When , and , she was very great , and to the secret joy of 's nephew , beat her sisters hollow : though they were sharp girls too , as could have told you .
There might have been twenty people there , young and old , but they all played , and so did ; for wholly forgetting in the interest he had in what was going on , that his voice made no sound in their ears , he sometimes came out with his guess quite loud , and very often guessed quite right , too ; for the sharpest needle , best Whitechapel , warranted not to cut in the eye , was not sharper than ; blunt as he took it in his head to be .
The was greatly pleased to find him in this mood , and looked upon him with such favour , that he begged like a boy to be allowed to stay until the guests departed .
But this the said could not be done .
`` Here is a new game , '' said .
`` One half hour , , only one ! ''
It was a Game called and , where 's nephew had to think of something , and the rest must find out what ; he only answering to their questions yes or no , as the case was .
The brisk fire of questioning to which he was exposed , elicited from him that he was thinking of an animal , a live animal , rather a disagreeable animal , a savage animal , an animal that growled and grunted sometimes , and talked sometimes , and lived in , and walked about the streets , and was n't made a show of , and was n't led by anybody , and did n't live in a menagerie , and was never killed in a market , and was not a horse , or an ass , or a cow , or a bull , or a tiger , or a dog , or a pig , or a cat , or a bear .
At every fresh question that was put to him , this nephew burst into a fresh roar of laughter ; and was so inexpressibly tickled , that he was obliged to get up off the sofa and stamp .
At last the plump sister , falling into a similar state , cried out : `` I have found it out !
I know what it is , !
I know what it is ! ''
was the universal sentiment , though some objected that the reply to `` Is it a bear ? ''
ought to have been `` Yes ; '' inasmuch as an answer in the negative was sufficient to have diverted their thoughts from , supposing they had ever had any tendency that way .
`` He has given us plenty of merriment , I am sure , '' said , `` and it would be ungrateful not to drink his health .
Here is a glass of mulled wine ready to our hand at the moment ; and I say , 'Uncle ! ' ''
`` A and a to the old man , whatever he is ! ''
`` He would n't take it from me , but may he have it , nevertheless .
had imperceptibly become so gay and light of heart , that he would have pledged the unconscious company in return , and thanked them in an inaudible speech , if the had given him time .
But the whole scene passed off in the breath of the last word spoken by his nephew ; and he and the were again upon their travels .
Much they saw , and far they went , and many homes they visited , but always with a happy end .
The stood beside sick beds , and they were cheerful ; on foreign lands , and they were close at home ; by struggling men , and they were patient in their greater hope ; by poverty , and it was rich .
In almshouse , hospital , and jail , in misery 's every refuge , where vain man in his little brief authority had not made fast the door , and barred the out , he left his blessing , and taught his precepts .
It was a long night , if it were only a night ; but had his doubts of this , because the appeared to be condensed into the space of time they passed together .
It was strange , too , that while remained unaltered in his outward form , the grew older , clearly older .
had observed this change , but never spoke of it , until they left a children 's party , when , looking at the as they stood together in an open place , he noticed that its hair was grey .
`` Are spirits ' lives so short ? ''
`` My life upon this globe , is very brief , '' replied the .
The time is drawing near . ''
The chimes were ringing the three quarters past eleven at that moment .
`` Forgive me if I am not justified in what I ask , '' said , looking intently at the 's robe , `` but I see something strange , and not belonging to yourself , protruding from your skirts .
Is it a foot or a claw ? ''
`` It might be a claw , for the flesh there is upon it , '' was the 's sorrowful reply .
From the foldings of its robe , it brought two children ; wretched , abject , frightful , hideous , miserable .
They knelt down at its feet , and clung upon the outside of its garment .
They were a boy and girl .
, meagre , ragged , scowling , wolfish ; but prostrate , too , in their humility .
Where graceful youth should have filled their features out , and touched them with its freshest tints , a stale and shrivelled hand , like that of age , had pinched , and twisted them , and pulled them into shreds .
Where angels might have sat enthroned , devils lurked , and glared out menacing .
No change , no degradation , no perversion of humanity , in any grade , through all the mysteries of wonderful creation , has monsters half so horrible and dread .
Having them shown to him in this way , he tried to say they were fine children , but the words choked themselves , rather than be parties to a lie of such enormous magnitude .
could say no more .
`` They are 's , '' said the , looking down upon them .
`` And they cling to me , appealing from their fathers .
them both , and all of their degree , but most of all beware this boy , for on his brow I see that written which is , unless the writing be erased .
cried the , stretching out its hand towards the city .
`` Slander those who tell it ye !
Admit it for your factious purposes , and make it worse .
`` Have they no refuge or resource ? ''
said the , turning on him for the last time with his own words .
looked about him for the , and saw it not .
As the last stroke ceased to vibrate , he remembered the prediction of old , and lifting up his eyes , beheld a solemn , draped and hooded , coming , like a mist along the ground , towards him .
THE slowly , gravely , silently , approached .
When it came near him , bent down upon his knee ; for in the very air through which this moved it seemed to scatter gloom and mystery .
It was shrouded in a deep black garment , which concealed its head , its face , its form , and left nothing of it visible save one outstretched hand .
But for this it would have been difficult to detach its figure from the night , and separate it from the darkness by which it was surrounded .
He felt that it was tall and stately when it came beside him , and that its mysterious presence filled him with a solemn dread .
He knew no more , for the neither spoke nor moved .
`` I am in the presence of the of To Come ? ''
The answered not , but pointed onward with its hand .
`` You are about to show me shadows of the things that have not happened , but will happen in the time before us , '' pursued .
The upper portion of the garment was contracted for an instant in its folds , as if the had inclined its head .
That was the only answer he received .
Although well used to ghostly company by this time , feared the silent shape so much that his legs trembled beneath him , and he found that he could hardly stand when he prepared to follow it .
The paused a moment , as observing his condition , and giving him time to recover .
But was all the worse for this .
It thrilled him with a vague uncertain horror , to know that behind the dusky shroud , there were ghostly eyes intently fixed upon him , while he , though he stretched his own to the utmost , could see nothing but a spectral hand and one great heap of black .
he exclaimed , `` I fear you more than any spectre I have seen .
But as I know your purpose is to do me good , and as I hope to live to be another man from what I was , I am prepared to bear you company , and do it with a thankful heart .
Will you not speak to me ? ''
It gave him no reply .
The hand was pointed straight before them .
The night is waning fast , and it is precious time to me , I know .
The moved away as it had come towards him .
followed in the shadow of its dress , which bore him up , he thought , and carried him along .
They scarcely seemed to enter the city ; for the city rather seemed to spring up about them , and encompass them of its own act .
But there they were , in the heart of it ; on 'Change , amongst the merchants ; who hurried up and down , and chinked the money in their pockets , and conversed in groups , and looked at their watches , and trifled thoughtfully with their great gold seals ; and so forth , as had seen them often .
The stopped beside one little knot of business men .
Observing that the hand was pointed to them , advanced to listen to their talk .
`` No , '' said a great fat man with a monstrous chin , `` I do n't know much about it , either way .
I only know he 's dead . ''
`` Why , what was the matter with him ? ''
asked a third , taking a vast quantity of snuff out of a very large snuff-box .
`` I thought he 'd never die . ''
`` God knows , '' said the first , with a yawn .
`` What has he done with his money ? ''
asked a red-faced gentleman with a pendulous excrescence on the end of his nose , that shook like the gills of a turkey-cock .
`` I have n't heard , '' said the man with the large chin , yawning again .
`` Left it to his company , perhaps .
He has n't left it to me .
This pleasantry was received with a general laugh .
`` It 's likely to be a very cheap funeral , '' said the same speaker ; `` for upon my life I do n't know of anybody to go to it .
Suppose we make up a party and volunteer ? ''
`` I do n't mind going if a lunch is provided , '' observed the gentleman with the excrescence on his nose .
`` But I must be fed , if I make one . ''
`` Well , I am the most disinterested among you , after all , '' said the first speaker , `` for I never wear black gloves , and I never eat lunch .
But I 'll offer to go , if anybody else will .
When I come to think of it , I 'm not at all sure that I was n't his most particular friend ; for we used to stop and speak whenever we met .
Speakers and listeners strolled away , and mixed with other groups .
knew the men , and looked towards the for an explanation .
The glided on into a street .
Its finger pointed to two persons meeting .
listened again , thinking that the explanation might lie here .
He knew these men , also , perfectly .
They were men of business : very wealthy , and of great importance .
He had made a point always of standing well in their esteem : in a business point of view , that is ; strictly in a business point of view .
`` Old has got his own at last , hey ? ''
`` So I am told , '' returned the second .
You 're not a skater , I suppose ? ''
Something else to think of .
That was their meeting , their conversation , and their parting .
was at first inclined to be surprised that the should attach importance to conversations apparently so trivial ; but feeling assured that they must have some hidden purpose , he set himself to consider what it was likely to be .
They could scarcely be supposed to have any bearing on the death of , his old partner , for that was , and this Ghost 's province was the .
Nor could he think of any one immediately connected with himself , to whom he could apply them .
But nothing doubting that to whomsoever they applied they had some latent moral for his own improvement , he resolved to treasure up every word he heard , and everything he saw ; and especially to observe the shadow of himself when it appeared .
For he had an expectation that the conduct of his future self would give him the clue he missed , and would render the solution of these riddles easy .
He looked about in that very place for his own image ; but another man stood in his accustomed corner , and though the clock pointed to his usual time of day for being there , he saw no likeness of himself among the multitudes that poured in through the .
It gave him little surprise , however ; for he had been revolving in his mind a change of life , and thought and hoped he saw his new-born resolutions carried out in this .
and dark , beside him stood the , with its outstretched hand .
When he roused himself from his thoughtful quest , he fancied from the turn of the hand , and its situation in reference to himself , that the were looking at him keenly .
It made him shudder , and feel very cold .
They left the busy scene , and went into an obscure part of the town , where had never penetrated before , although he recognised its situation , and its bad repute .
The ways were foul and narrow ; the shops and houses wretched ; the people half-naked , drunken , slipshod , ugly .
Alleys and archways , like so many cesspools , disgorged their offences of smell , and dirt , and life , upon the straggling streets ; and the whole quarter reeked with crime , with filth , and misery .
Far in this den of infamous resort , there was a low-browed , beetling shop , below a pent-house roof , where iron , old rags , bottles , bones , and greasy offal , were bought .
Upon the floor within , were piled up heaps of rusty keys , nails , chains , hinges , files , scales , weights , and refuse iron of all kinds .
Secrets that few would like to scrutinise were bred and hidden in mountains of unseemly rags , masses of corrupted fat , and sepulchres of bones .
Sitting in among the wares he dealt in , by a charcoal stove , made of old bricks , was a grey-haired rascal , nearly seventy years of age ; who had screened himself from the cold air without , by a frousy curtaining of miscellaneous tatters , hung upon a line ; and smoked his pipe in all the luxury of calm retirement .
and the came into the presence of this man , just as a woman with a heavy bundle slunk into the shop .
But she had scarcely entered , when another woman , similarly laden , came in too ; and she was closely followed by a man in faded black , who was no less startled by the sight of them , than they had been upon the recognition of each other .
After a short period of blank astonishment , in which the old man with the pipe had joined them , they all three burst into a laugh .
`` Let the charwoman alone to be the first ! ''
cried she who had entered first .
`` Let the laundress alone to be the second ; and let the undertaker 's man alone to be the third .
here , old , here 's a chance !
If we have n't all three met here without meaning it ! ''
`` You could n't have met in a better place , '' said old , removing his pipe from his mouth .
You were made free of it long ago , you know ; and the other two a n't strangers .
till I shut the door of the shop .
There a n't such a rusty bit of metal in the place as its own hinges , I believe ; and I 'm sure there 's no such old bones here , as mine .
We 're all suitable to our calling , we 're well matched .
The parlour was the space behind the screen of rags .
The old man raked the fire together with an old stair-rod , and having trimmed his smoky lamp ( for it was night ) , with the stem of his pipe , put it in his mouth again .
While he did this , the woman who had already spoken threw her bundle on the floor , and sat down in a flaunting manner on a stool ; crossing her elbows on her knees , and looking with a bold defiance at the other two .
`` Every person has a right to take care of themselves .
`` Why then , do n't stand staring as if you was afraid , woman ; who 's the wiser ?
We 're not going to pick holes in each other 's coats , I suppose ? ''
said Mrs. Dilber and the man together .
Who 's the worse for the loss of a few things like these ?
Not a dead man , I suppose . ''
`` No , indeed , '' said Mrs. Dilber , laughing .
`` If he wanted to keep 'em after he was dead , a wicked old screw , '' pursued the woman , `` why was n't he natural in his lifetime ?
If he had been , he 'd have had somebody to look after him when he was struck with , instead of lying gasping out his last there , alone by himself . ''
`` It 's the truest word that ever was spoke , '' said Mrs. Dilber .
`` It 's a judgment on him . ''
`` I wish it was a little heavier judgment , '' replied the woman ; `` and it should have been , you may depend upon it , if I could have laid my hands on anything else .
Open that bundle , old , and let me know the value of it .
I 'm not afraid to be the first , nor afraid for them to see it .
We know pretty well that we were helping ourselves , before we met here , I believe .
But the gallantry of her friends would not allow of this ; and the man in faded black , mounting the breach first , produced his plunder .
A seal or two , a pencil-case , a pair of sleeve-buttons , and a brooch of no great value , were all .
They were severally examined and appraised by old , who chalked the sums he was disposed to give for each , upon the wall , and added them up into a total when he found there was nothing more to come .
`` That 's your account , '' said , `` and I would n't give another sixpence , if I was to be boiled for not doing it .
Sheets and towels , a little wearing apparel , two old-fashioned silver teaspoons , a pair of sugar-tongs , and a few boots .
Her account was stated on the wall in the same manner .
`` I always give too much to ladies .
It 's a weakness of mine , and that 's the way I ruin myself , '' said old .
If you asked me for another penny , and made it an open question , I 'd repent of being so liberal and knock off half-a-crown . ''
`` And now undo my bundle , , '' said the first woman .
went down on his knees for the greater convenience of opening it , and having unfastened a great many knots , dragged out a large and heavy roll of some dark stuff .
`` What do you call this ? ''
returned the woman , laughing and leaning forward on her crossed arms .
`` You do n't mean to say you took 'em down , rings and all , with him lying there ? ''
`` Yes I do , '' replied the woman .
`` You were born to make your fortune , '' said , `` and you 'll certainly do it . ''
`` I certainly sha n't hold my hand , when I can get anything in it by reaching it out , for the sake of such a man as He was , I promise you , , '' returned the woman coolly .
`` Do n't drop that oil upon the blankets , now . ''
`` Whose else 's do you think ? ''
`` He is n't likely to take cold without 'em , I dare say . ''
`` I hope he did n't die of anything catching ?
said old , stopping in his work , and looking up .
`` Do n't you be afraid of that , '' returned the woman .
`` I a n't so fond of his company that I 'd loiter about him for such things , if he did .
you may look through that shirt till your eyes ache ; but you wo n't find a hole in it , nor a threadbare place .
It 's the best he had , and a fine one too .
They 'd have wasted it , if it had n't been for me . ''
`` What do you call wasting of it ? ''
`` Putting it on him to be buried in , to be sure , '' replied the woman with a laugh .
`` Somebody was fool enough to do it , but I took it off again .
If calico a n't good enough for such a purpose , it is n't good enough for anything .
It 's quite as becoming to the body .
He ca n't look uglier than he did in that one . ''
listened to this dialogue in horror .
As they sat grouped about their spoil , in the scanty light afforded by the old man 's lamp , he viewed them with a detestation and disgust , which could hardly have been greater , though they had been obscene demons , marketing the corpse itself .
laughed the same woman , when old , producing a flannel bag with money in it , told out their several gains upon the ground .
`` This is the end of it , you see !
He frightened every one away from him when he was alive , to profit us when he was dead !
said , shuddering from head to foot .
The case of this unhappy man might be my own .
My life tends that way , now .
, what is this ! ''
He recoiled in terror , for the scene had changed , and now he almost touched a bed : a bare , uncurtained bed : on which , beneath a ragged sheet , there lay a something covered up , which , though it was dumb , announced itself in awful language .
The room was very dark , too dark to be observed with any accuracy , though glanced round it in obedience to a secret impulse , anxious to know what kind of room it was .
A pale light , rising in the outer air , fell straight upon the bed ; and on it , plundered and bereft , unwatched , unwept , uncared for , was the body of this man .
glanced towards the .
Its steady hand was pointed to the head .
The cover was so carelessly adjusted that the slightest raising of it , the motion of a finger upon 's part , would have disclosed the face .
He thought of it , felt how easy it would be to do , and longed to do it ; but had no more power to withdraw the veil than to dismiss the spectre at his side .
Oh cold , cold , rigid , dreadful Death , set up thine altar here , and dress it with such terrors as thou hast at thy command : for this is thy dominion !
But of the loved , revered , and honoured head , thou canst not turn one hair to thy dread purposes , or make one feature odious .
It is not that the hand is heavy and will fall down when released ; it is not that the heart and pulse are still ; but that the hand WAS open , generous , and true ; the heart brave , warm , and tender ; and the pulse a man 's .
And see his good deeds springing from the wound , to sow the world with life immortal !
No voice pronounced these words in 's ears , and yet he heard them when he looked upon the bed .
He thought , if this man could be raised up now , what would be his foremost thoughts ?
They have brought him to a rich end , truly !
He lay , in the dark empty house , with not a man , a woman , or a child , to say that he was kind to me in this or that , and for the memory of one kind word I will be kind to him .
A cat was tearing at the door , and there was a sound of gnawing rats beneath the hearth-stone .
What they wanted in the room of death , and why they were so restless and disturbed , did not dare to think .
he said , `` this is a fearful place .
In leaving it , I shall not leave its lesson , trust me .
Still the pointed with an unmoved finger to the head .
`` I understand you , '' returned , `` and I would do it , if I could .
But I have not the power , .
I have not the power . ''
Again it seemed to look upon him .
`` If there is any person in the town , who feels emotion caused by this man 's death , '' said quite agonised , `` show that person to me , , I beseech you ! ''
The spread its dark robe before him for a moment , like a wing ; and withdrawing it , revealed a room by daylight , where a mother and her children were .
She was expecting some one , and with anxious eagerness ; for she walked up and down the room ; started at every sound ; looked out from the window ; glanced at the clock ; tried , but in vain , to work with her needle ; and could hardly bear the voices of the children in their play .
At length the long-expected knock was heard .
She hurried to the door , and met her husband ; a man whose face was careworn and depressed , though he was young .
There was a remarkable expression in it now ; a kind of serious delight of which he felt ashamed , and which he struggled to repress .
He sat down to the dinner that had been hoarding for him by the fire ; and when she asked him faintly what news ( which was not until after a long silence ) , he appeared embarrassed how to answer .
There is hope yet , . ''
`` If he relents , '' she said , amazed , `` there is !
is past hope , if such a miracle has happened . ''
`` He is past relenting , '' said her husband .
She was a mild and patient creature if her face spoke truth ; but she was thankful in her soul to hear it , and she said so , with clasped hands .
She prayed forgiveness the next moment , and was sorry ; but the first was the emotion of her heart .
`` What the half-drunken woman whom I told you of last night , said to me , when I tried to see him and obtain a week 's delay ; and what I thought was a mere excuse to avoid me ; turns out to have been quite true .
He was not only very ill , but dying , then . ''
`` To whom will our debt be transferred ? ''
But before that time we shall be ready with the money ; and even though we were not , it would be a bad fortune indeed to find so merciless a creditor in his successor .
We may sleep to-night with light hearts , ! ''
Soften it as they would , their hearts were lighter .
The children 's faces , hushed and clustered round to hear what they so little understood , were brighter ; and it was a happier house for this man 's death !
The only emotion that the could show him , caused by the event , was one of pleasure .
`` Let me see some tenderness connected with a death , '' said ; `` or that dark chamber , , which we left just now , will be for ever present to me . ''
The conducted him through several streets familiar to his feet ; and as they went along , looked here and there to find himself , but nowhere was he to be seen .
They entered poor 's house ; the dwelling he had visited before ; and found the mother and the children seated round the fire .
The noisy little Cratchits were as still as statues in one corner , and sat looking up at , who had a book before him .
The mother and her daughters were engaged in sewing .
But surely they were very quiet !
`` 'And He took a child , and set him in the midst of them . ' ''
Where had heard those words ?
He had not dreamed them .
The boy must have read them out , as he and the crossed the threshold .
Why did he not go on ?
The mother laid her work upon the table , and put her hand up to her face .
`` The colour hurts my eyes , '' she said .
`` They 're better now again , '' said 's wife .
`` It makes them weak by candle-light ; and I would n't show weak eyes to your father when he comes home , for the world .
It must be near his time . ''
`` Past it rather , '' answered , shutting up his book .
`` But I think he has walked a little slower than he used , these few last evenings , mother . ''
They were very quiet again .
At last she said , and in a steady , cheerful voice , that only faltered once : `` I have known him walk with -- I have known him walk with upon his shoulder , very fast indeed . ''
`` And so have I , '' cried .
`` And so have I , '' exclaimed another .
`` But he was very light to carry , '' she resumed , intent upon her work , `` and his father loved him so , that it was no trouble : no trouble .
And there is your father at the door ! ''
She hurried out to meet him ; and little Bob in his comforter -- he had need of it , poor fellow -- came in .
His tea was ready for him on the hob , and they all tried who should help him to it most .
Then the two young Cratchits got upon his knees and laid , each child a little cheek , against his face , as if they said , `` Do n't mind it , father .
was very cheerful with them , and spoke pleasantly to all the family .
He looked at the work upon the table , and praised the industry and speed of Mrs. Cratchit and the girls .
They would be done long before Sunday , he said .
You went to-day , then , ? ''
`` Yes , my dear , '' returned .
`` I wish you could have gone .
It would have done you good to see how green a place it is .
But you 'll see it often .
I promised him that I would walk there on a Sunday .
He broke down all at once .
If he could have helped it , he and his child would have been farther apart perhaps than they were .
He left the room , and went up-stairs into the room above , which was lighted cheerfully , and hung with .
There was a chair set close beside the child , and there were signs of some one having been there , lately .
sat down in it , and when he had thought a little and composed himself , he kissed the little face .
He was reconciled to what had happened , and went down again quite happy .
They drew about the fire , and talked ; the girls and mother working still .
told them of the extraordinary kindness of 's nephew , whom he had scarcely seen but once , and who , meeting him in the street that day , and seeing that he looked a little -- '' just a little down you know , '' said , inquired what had happened to distress him .
`` On which , '' said , `` for he is the pleasantest-spoken gentleman you ever heard , I told him .
' I am heartily sorry for it , , ' he said , 'and heartily sorry for your good wife . '
By the bye , how he ever knew that , I do n't know . ''
`` Why , that you were a good wife , '' replied .
`` Very well observed , my boy ! ''
'Heartily sorry , ' he said , 'for your good wife .
If I can be of service to you in any way , ' he said , giving me his card , 'that 's where I live .
Now , it was n't , '' cried , `` for the sake of anything he might be able to do for us , so much as for his kind way , that this was quite delightful .
It really seemed as if he had known our Tiny Tim , and felt with us . ''
`` I 'm sure he 's a good soul ! ''
`` You would be surer of it , my dear , '' returned , `` if you saw and spoke to him .
I should n't be at all surprised -- mark what I say ! -- if he got a better situation . ''
`` Only hear that , , '' said Mrs. Cratchit .
`` And then , '' cried one of the girls , `` will be keeping company with some one , and setting up for himself . ''
`` It 's just as likely as not , '' said , `` one of these days ; though there 's plenty of time for that , my dear .
But however and whenever we part from one another , I am sure we shall none of us forget poor -- shall we -- or this first parting that there was among us ? ''
`` And I know , '' said , `` I know , my dears , that when we recollect how patient and how mild he was ; although he was a little , little child ; we shall not quarrel easily among ourselves , and forget poor in doing it . ''
`` I am very happy , '' said little , `` I am very happy ! ''
Mrs. kissed him , his daughters kissed him , the two young Cratchits kissed him , and and himself shook hands .
of , thy childish essence was from God !
`` Spectre , '' said , `` something informs me that our parting moment is at hand .
I know it , but I know not how .
Tell me what man that was whom we saw lying dead ? ''
The of To Come conveyed him , as before -- though at a different time , he thought : indeed , there seemed no order in these latter visions , save that they were in the -- into the resorts of business men , but showed him not himself .
Indeed , the did not stay for anything , but went straight on , as to the end just now desired , until besought by to tarry for a moment .
`` This court , '' said , `` through which we hurry now , is where my place of occupation is , and has been for a length of time .
Let me behold what I shall be , in days to come ! ''
The stopped ; the hand was pointed elsewhere .
`` The house is yonder , '' exclaimed .
`` Why do you point away ? ''
The inexorable finger underwent no change .
hastened to the window of his office , and looked in .
It was an office still , but not his .
The furniture was not the same , and the figure in the chair was not himself .
The pointed as before .
He joined it once again , and wondering why and whither he had gone , accompanied it until they reached an iron gate .
He paused to look round before entering .
Here , then ; the wretched man whose name he had now to learn , lay underneath the ground .
It was a worthy place .
Walled in by houses ; overrun by grass and weeds , the growth of vegetation 's death , not life ; choked up with too much burying ; fat with repleted appetite .
The stood among the graves , and pointed down to One .
He advanced towards it trembling .
The was exactly as it had been , but he dreaded that he saw new meaning in its solemn shape .
`` Before I draw nearer to that stone to which you point , '' said , `` answer me one question .
Are these the shadows of the things that be , or are they shadows of things that May be , only ? ''
Still the pointed downward to the grave by which it stood .
`` Men 's courses will foreshadow certain ends , to which , if persevered in , they must lead , '' said .
`` But if the courses be departed from , the ends will change .
Say it is thus with what you show me ! ''
The was immovable as ever .
crept towards it , trembling as he went ; and following the finger , read upon the stone of the neglected grave his own name , SCROOGE .
`` Am I that man who lay upon the bed ? ''
he cried , upon his knees .
The finger pointed from the grave to him , and back again .
The finger still was there .
he cried , tight clutching at its robe , `` hear me !
I am not the man I was .
I will not be the man I must have been but for this intercourse .
Why show me this , if I am past all hope ! ''
For the first time the hand appeared to shake .
`` Good Spirit , '' he pursued , as down upon the ground he fell before it : `` Your nature intercedes for me , and pities me .
Assure me that I yet may change these shadows you have shown me , by an altered life ! ''
`` I will honour in my heart , and try to keep it all the year .
I will live in the , the Present , and the .
The of all Three shall strive within me .
I will not shut out the lessons that they teach .
Oh , tell me I may sponge away the writing on this stone ! ''
In his agony , he caught the spectral hand .
It sought to free itself , but he was strong in his entreaty , and detained it .
The , stronger yet , repulsed him .
Holding up his hands in a last prayer to have his fate reversed , he saw an alteration in the 's hood and dress .
It shrunk , collapsed , and dwindled down into a bedpost .
and the bedpost was his own .
The bed was his own , the room was his own .
and happiest of all , the Time before him was his own , to make amends in !
`` I will live in the , the Present , and the ! ''
repeated , as he scrambled out of bed .
`` The of all Three shall strive within me .
, and the Time be praised for this !
I say it on my knees , old ; on my knees ! ''
He was so fluttered and so glowing with his good intentions , that his broken voice would scarcely answer to his call .
He had been sobbing violently in his conflict with the , and his face was wet with tears .
`` They are not torn down , '' cried , folding one of his bed-curtains in his arms , `` they are not torn down , rings and all .
They are here -- I am here -- the shadows of the things that would have been , may be dispelled .
His hands were busy with his garments all this time ; turning them inside out , putting them on upside down , tearing them , mislaying them , making them parties to every kind of extravagance .
`` I do n't know what to do ! ''
cried , laughing and crying in the same breath ; and making a perfect Laocon of himself with his stockings .
`` I am as light as a feather , I am as happy as an angel , I am as merry as a schoolboy .
I am as giddy as a drunken man .
A merry Christmas to everybody !
A happy New Year to all the world .
He had frisked into the sitting-room , and was now standing there : perfectly winded .
`` There 's the saucepan that the gruel was in ! ''
cried , starting off again , and going round the fireplace .
`` There 's the door , by which the of entered !
There 's the corner where the of , sat !
There 's the window where I saw the wandering Spirits !
It 's all right , it 's all true , it all happened .
Really , for a man who had been out of practice for so many years , it was a splendid laugh , a most illustrious laugh .
The father of a long , long line of brilliant laughs !
`` I do n't know what day of the month it is ! ''
`` I do n't know how long I 've been among the Spirits .
I 'd rather be a baby .
He was checked in his transports by the churches ringing out the lustiest peals he had ever heard .
, clang , hammer ; ding , dong , bell .
, dong , ding ; hammer , clang , clash !
Running to the window , he opened it , and put out his head .
No fog , no mist ; clear , bright , jovial , stirring , cold ; cold , piping for the blood to dance to ; sunlight ; Heavenly sky ; sweet fresh air ; merry bells .
cried , calling downward to a boy in Sunday clothes , who perhaps had loitered in to look about him .
returned the boy , with all his might of wonder .
`` What 's to-day , my fine fellow ? ''
The Spirits have done it all in one night .
They can do anything they like .
`` Do you know the 's , in the next street but one , at the corner ? ''
`` I should hope I did , '' replied the lad .
Do you know whether they 've sold the prize that was hanging up there ? -- Not the little prize : the big one ? ''
`` What , the one as big as me ? ''
`` It 's a pleasure to talk to him .
`` It 's hanging there now , '' replied the boy .
`` No , no , '' said , `` I am in earnest .
Go and buy it , and tell 'em to bring it here , that I may give them the direction where to take it .
Come back with the man , and I 'll give you a shilling .
Come back with him in less than five minutes and I 'll give you half-a-crown ! ''
The boy was off like a shot .
He must have had a steady hand at a trigger who could have got a shot off half so fast .
`` I 'll send it to 's ! ''
whispered , rubbing his hands , and splitting with a laugh .
`` He sha ' n't know who sends it .
It 's twice the size of .
never made such a joke as sending it to 's will be ! ''
The hand in which he wrote the address was not a steady one , but write it he did , somehow , and went down-stairs to open the street door , ready for the coming of the poulterer 's man .
As he stood there , waiting his arrival , the knocker caught his eye .
`` I shall love it , as long as I live ! ''
cried , patting it with his hand .
`` I scarcely ever looked at it before .
What an honest expression it has in its face !
It 's a wonderful knocker ! -- Here 's the !
He never could have stood upon his legs , that bird .
He would have snapped 'em short off in a minute , like sticks of sealing-wax .
`` Why , it 's impossible to carry that to , '' said .
`` You must have a cab . ''
The chuckle with which he said this , and the chuckle with which he paid for the , and the chuckle with which he paid for the cab , and the chuckle with which he recompensed the boy , were only to be exceeded by the chuckle with which he sat down breathless in his chair again , and chuckled till he cried .
Shaving was not an easy task , for his hand continued to shake very much ; and shaving requires attention , even when you do n't dance while you are at it .
But if he had cut the end of his nose off , he would have put a piece of sticking-plaister over it , and been quite satisfied .
He dressed himself `` all in his best , '' and at last got out into the streets .
The people were by this time pouring forth , as he had seen them with the of ; and walking with his hands behind him , regarded every one with a delighted smile .
He looked so irresistibly pleasant , in a word , that three or four good-humoured fellows said , `` Good morning , sir !
A merry Christmas to you ! ''
And said often afterwards , that of all the blithe sounds he had ever heard , those were the blithest in his ears .
He had not gone far , when coming on towards him he beheld the portly gentleman , who had walked into his counting-house the day before , and said , `` and 's , I believe ? ''
It sent a pang across his heart to think how this old gentleman would look upon him when they met ; but he knew what path lay straight before him , and he took it .
`` My dear sir , '' said , quickening his pace , and taking the old gentleman by both his hands .
I hope you succeeded yesterday .
It was very kind of you .
A merry Christmas to you , sir ! ''
`` That is my name , and I fear it may not be pleasant to you .
Allow me to ask your pardon .
And will you have the goodness '' -- here whispered in his ear .
cried the gentleman , as if his breath were taken away .
`` My dear , are you serious ? ''
`` If you please , '' said .
A great many back-payments are included in it , I assure you .
Will you do me that favour ? ''
`` My dear sir , '' said the other , shaking hands with him .
`` I do n't know what to say to such munifi -- '' `` Do n't say anything , please , '' retorted .
Will you come and see me ? ''
And it was clear he meant to do it .
`` I am much obliged to you .
I thank you fifty times .
He went to church , and walked about the streets , and watched the people hurrying to and fro , and patted children on the head , and questioned beggars , and looked down into the kitchens of houses , and up to the windows , and found that everything could yield him pleasure .
He had never dreamed that any walk -- that anything -- could give him so much happiness .
In the afternoon he turned his steps towards his nephew 's house .
He passed the door a dozen times , before he had the courage to go up and knock .
But he made a dash , and did it : `` Is your master at home , my dear ? ''
said to the girl .
`` Where is he , my love ? ''
`` He 's in the dining-room , sir , along with mistress .
I 'll show you up-stairs , if you please . ''
He knows me , '' said , with his hand already on the dining-room lock .
`` I 'll go in here , my dear . ''
He turned it gently , and sidled his face in , round the door .
They were looking at the table ( which was spread out in great array ) ; for these young housekeepers are always nervous on such points , and like to see that everything is right .
Dear heart alive , how his niece by marriage started !
had forgotten , for the moment , about her sitting in the corner with the footstool , or he would n't have done it , on any account .
I have come to dinner .
Will you let me in , ? ''
It is a mercy he did n't shake his arm off .
He was at home in five minutes .
His niece looked just the same .
So did when he came .
So did the plump sister when she came .
So did every one when they came .
party , wonderful games , wonderful unanimity , won-der-ful happiness !
But he was early at the office next morning .
Oh , he was early there .
If he could only be there first , and catch coming late !
That was the thing he had set his heart upon .
And he did it ; yes , he did !
He was full eighteen minutes and a half behind his time .
sat with his door wide open , that he might see him come into the .
His hat was off , before he opened the door ; his comforter too .
He was on his stool in a jiffy ; driving away with his pen , as if he were trying to overtake nine o'clock .
growled , in his accustomed voice , as near as he could feign it .
`` What do you mean by coming here at this time of day ? ''
`` I am very sorry , sir , '' said .
`` I am behind my time . ''
this way , sir , if you please . ''
`` It 's only once a year , sir , '' pleaded , appearing from the .
`` It shall not be repeated .
I was making rather merry yesterday , sir . ''
`` Now , I 'll tell you what , my friend , '' said , `` I am not going to stand this sort of thing any longer .
And therefore , '' he continued , leaping from his stool , and giving such a dig in the waistcoat that he staggered back into the again ; `` and therefore I am about to raise your salary ! ''
trembled , and got a little nearer to the ruler .
He had a momentary idea of knocking down with it , holding him , and calling to the people in the court for help and a strait-waistcoat .
said , with an earnestness that could not be mistaken , as he clapped him on the back .
`` A merrier , , my good fellow , than I have given you , for many a year !
I 'll raise your salary , and endeavour to assist your struggling family , and we will discuss your affairs this very afternoon , over a Christmas bowl of smoking bishop , !
Make up the fires , and buy another coal-scuttle before you dot another i , ! ''
was better than his word .
He did it all , and infinitely more ; and to , who did die , he was a second father .
He became as good a friend , as good a master , and as good a man , as the good old city knew , or any other good old city , town , or borough , in the good old world .
Some people laughed to see the alteration in him , but he let them laugh , and little heeded them ; for he was wise enough to know that nothing ever happened on this globe , for good , at which some people did not have their fill of laughter in the outset ; and knowing that such as these would be blind anyway , he thought it quite as well that they should wrinkle up their eyes in grins , as have the malady in less attractive forms .
His own heart laughed : and that was quite enough for him .
He had no further intercourse with , but lived upon the Principle , ever afterwards ; and it was always said of him , that he knew how to keep well , if any man alive possessed the knowledge .
May that be truly said of us , and all of us !
And so , as observed , bless , Every One !
End of the EBook of A Christmas Carol , by
