Produced by and .
version by .
Among other public buildings in a certain town , which for many reasons it will be prudent to refrain from mentioning , and to which I will assign no fictitious name , there is one anciently common to most towns , great or small : to wit , a workhouse ; and in this workhouse was born ; on a day and date which I need not trouble myself to repeat , inasmuch as it can be of no possible consequence to the reader , in this stage of the business at all events ; the item of mortality whose name is prefixed to the head of this chapter .
For a long time after it was ushered into this world of sorrow and trouble , by the parish surgeon , it remained a matter of considerable doubt whether the child would survive to bear any name at all ; in which case it is somewhat more than probable that these memoirs would never have appeared ; or , if they had , that being comprised within a couple of pages , they would have possessed the inestimable merit of being the most concise and faithful specimen of biography , extant in the literature of any age or country .
Although I am not disposed to maintain that the being born in a workhouse , is in itself the most fortunate and enviable circumstance that can possibly befall a human being , I do mean to say that in this particular instance , it was the best thing for that could by possibility have occurred .
The fact is , that there was considerable difficulty in inducing to take upon himself the office of respiration , -- a troublesome practice , but one which custom has rendered necessary to our easy existence ; and for some time he lay gasping on a little flock mattress , rather unequally poised between this world and the next : the balance being decidedly in favour of the latter .
Now , if , during this brief period , had been surrounded by careful grandmothers , anxious aunts , experienced nurses , and doctors of profound wisdom , he would most inevitably and indubitably have been killed in no time .
There being nobody by , however , but a pauper old woman , who was rendered rather misty by an unwonted allowance of beer ; and a parish surgeon who did such matters by contract ; and fought out the point between them .
The result was , that , after a few struggles , breathed , sneezed , and proceeded to advertise to the inmates of the workhouse the fact of a new burden having been imposed upon the parish , by setting up as loud a cry as could reasonably have been expected from a male infant who had not been possessed of that very useful appendage , a voice , for a much longer space of time than three minutes and a quarter .
As gave this first proof of the free and proper action of his lungs , the patchwork coverlet which was carelessly flung over the iron bedstead , rustled ; the pale face of a young woman was raised feebly from the pillow ; and a faint voice imperfectly articulated the words , 'Let me see the child , and die . '
The surgeon had been sitting with his face turned towards the fire : giving the palms of his hands a warm and a rub alternately .
As the young woman spoke , he rose , and advancing to the bed 's head , said , with more kindness than might have been expected of him : 'Oh , you must not talk about dying yet . '
'Lor bless her dear heart , no ! '
interposed the nurse , hastily depositing in her pocket a green glass bottle , the contents of which she had been tasting in a corner with evident satisfaction .
'Lor bless her dear heart , when she has lived as long as I have , sir , and had thirteen children of her own , and all on 'em dead except two , and them in the wurkus with me , she 'll know better than to take on in that way , bless her dear heart !
Think what it is to be a mother , there 's a dear young lamb do . '
Apparently this consolatory perspective of a mother 's prospects failed in producing its due effect .
The patient shook her head , and stretched out her hand towards the child .
The surgeon deposited it in her arms .
She imprinted her cold white lips passionately on its forehead ; passed her hands over her face ; gazed wildly round ; shuddered ; fell back -- and died .
They chafed her breast , hands , and temples ; but the blood had stopped forever .
They talked of hope and comfort .
They had been strangers too long .
said the surgeon at last .
'Ah , poor dear , so it is ! '
said the nurse , picking up the cork of the green bottle , which had fallen out on the pillow , as she stooped to take up the child .
'You need n't mind sending up to me , if the child cries , nurse , ' said the surgeon , putting on his gloves with great deliberation .
'It 's very likely it _will_ be troublesome .
Give it a little gruel if it is . '
He put on his hat , and , pausing by the bed-side on his way to the door , added , 'She was a good-looking girl , too ; where did she come from ? '
'She was brought here last night , ' replied the old woman , 'by the overseer 's order .
She was found lying in the street .
She had walked some distance , for her shoes were worn to pieces ; but where she came from , or where she was going to , nobody knows . '
The surgeon leaned over the body , and raised the left hand .
'The old story , ' he said , shaking his head : 'no wedding-ring , I see .
The medical gentleman walked away to dinner ; and the nurse , having once more applied herself to the green bottle , sat down on a low chair before the fire , and proceeded to dress the infant .
What an excellent example of the power of dress , young was !
Wrapped in the blanket which had hitherto formed his only covering , he might have been the child of a nobleman or a beggar ; it would have been hard for the haughtiest stranger to have assigned him his proper station in society .
But now that he was enveloped in the old calico robes which had grown yellow in the same service , he was badged and ticketed , and fell into his place at once -- a parish child -- the orphan of a workhouse -- the humble , half-starved drudge -- to be cuffed and buffeted through the world -- despised by all , and pitied by none .
If he could have known that he was an orphan , left to the tender mercies of church-wardens and overseers , perhaps he would have cried the louder .
For the next eight or ten months , was the victim of a systematic course of treachery and deception .
He was brought up by hand .
The hungry and destitute situation of the infant orphan was duly reported by the workhouse authorities to the parish authorities .
The parish authorities inquired with dignity of the workhouse authorities , whether there was no female then domiciled in 'the house ' who was in a situation to impart to , the consolation and nourishment of which he stood in need .
The workhouse authorities replied with humility , that there was not .
Upon this , the parish authorities magnanimously and humanely resolved , that should be 'farmed , ' or , in other words , that he should be dispatched to a branch-workhouse some three miles off , where twenty or thirty other juvenile offenders against the poor-laws , rolled about the floor all day , without the inconvenience of too much food or too much clothing , under the parental superintendence of an elderly female , who received the culprits at and for the consideration of sevenpence-halfpenny per small head per week .
Sevenpence-halfpenny 's worth per week is a good round diet for a child ; a great deal may be got for sevenpence-halfpenny , quite enough to overload its stomach , and make it uncomfortable .
The elderly female was a woman of wisdom and experience ; she knew what was good for children ; and she had a very accurate perception of what was good for herself .
So , she appropriated the greater part of the weekly stipend to her own use , and consigned the rising parochial generation to even a shorter allowance than was originally provided for them .
Thereby finding in the lowest depth a deeper still ; and proving herself a very great experimental philosopher .
Everybody knows the story of another experimental philosopher who had a great theory about a horse being able to live without eating , and who demonstrated it so well , that he had got his own horse down to a straw a day , and would unquestionably have rendered him a very spirited and rampacious animal on nothing at all , if he had not died , four-and-twenty hours before he was to have had his first comfortable bait of air .
Unfortunately for , the experimental philosophy of the female to whose protecting care was delivered over , a similar result usually attended the operation of _her_ system ; for at the very moment when the child had contrived to exist upon the smallest possible portion of the weakest possible food , it did perversely happen in eight and a half cases out of ten , either that it sickened from want and cold , or fell into the fire from neglect , or got half-smothered by accident ; in any one of which cases , the miserable little being was usually summoned into another world , and there gathered to the fathers it had never known in this .
Occasionally , when there was some more than usually interesting inquest upon a parish child who had been overlooked in turning up a bedstead , or inadvertently scalded to death when there happened to be a washing -- though the latter accident was very scarce , anything approaching to a washing being of rare occurrence in the farm -- the jury would take it into their heads to ask troublesome questions , or the parishioners would rebelliously affix their signatures to a remonstrance .
But these impertinences were speedily checked by the evidence of the surgeon , and the testimony of the beadle ; the former of whom had always opened the body and found nothing inside ( which was very probable indeed ) , and the latter of whom invariably swore whatever the parish wanted ; which was very self-devotional .
Besides , the board made periodical pilgrimages to the farm , and always sent the beadle the day before , to say they were going .
The children were neat and clean to behold , when _they_ went ; and what more would the people have !
It can not be expected that this system of farming would produce any very extraordinary or luxuriant crop .
's ninth birthday found him a pale thin child , somewhat diminutive in stature , and decidedly small in circumference .
But nature or inheritance had implanted a good sturdy spirit in 's breast .
It had had plenty of room to expand , thanks to the spare diet of the establishment ; and perhaps to this circumstance may be attributed his having any ninth birth-day at all .
Be this as it may , however , it was his ninth birthday ; and he was keeping it in the coal-cellar with a select party of two other young gentleman , who , after participating with him in a sound thrashing , had been locked up for atrociously presuming to be hungry , when Mrs. Mann , the good lady of the house , was unexpectedly startled by the apparition of , the beadle , striving to undo the wicket of the garden-gate .
Is that you , , sir ? '
said Mrs. Mann , thrusting her head out of the window in well-affected ecstasies of joy .
' ( , take and them two brats upstairs , and wash 'em directly . )
, how glad I am to see you , sure-ly ! '
Now , was a fat man , and a choleric ; so , instead of responding to this open-hearted salutation in a kindred spirit , he gave the little wicket a tremendous shake , and then bestowed upon it a kick which could have emanated from no leg but a beadle 's .
'Lor , only think , ' said Mrs. Mann , running out , -- for the three boys had been removed by this time , -- 'only think of that !
That I should have forgotten that the gate was bolted on the inside , on account of them dear children !
in sir ; walk in , pray , , do , sir . '
Although this invitation was accompanied with a curtsey that might have softened the heart of a church-warden , it by no means mollified the beadle .
'Do you think this respectful or proper conduct , Mrs. Mann , ' inquired , grasping his cane , 'to keep the parish officers a waiting at your garden-gate , when they come here upon porochial business with the porochial orphans ?
Are you aweer , Mrs. Mann , that you are , as I may say , a porochial delegate , and a stipendiary ? '
' I 'm sure , that I was only a telling one or two of the dear children as is so fond of you , that it was you a coming , ' replied Mrs. Mann with great humility .
had a great idea of his oratorical powers and his importance .
He had displayed the one , and vindicated the other .
'Well , well , Mrs. Mann , ' he replied in a calmer tone ; 'it may be as you say ; it may be .
Lead the way in , Mrs. Mann , for I come on business , and have something to say . '
Mrs. Mann ushered the beadle into a small parlour with a brick floor ; placed a seat for him ; and officiously deposited his cocked hat and cane on the table before him .
wiped from his forehead the perspiration which his walk had engendered , glanced complacently at the cocked hat , and smiled .
Beadles are but men : and smiled .
'Now do n't you be offended at what I 'm a going to say , ' observed Mrs. Mann , with captivating sweetness .
'You 've had a long walk , you know , or I would n't mention it .
Now , will you take a little drop of somethink , Mr .
Nor a drop , ' said , waving his right hand in a dignified , but placid manner .
' I think you will , ' said Mrs. Mann , who had noticed the tone of the refusal , and the gesture that had accompanied it .
'Just a leetle drop , with a little cold water , and a lump of sugar . '
'Now , just a leetle drop , ' said Mrs. Mann persuasively .
'Why , it 's what I 'm obliged to keep a little of in the house , to put into the blessed infants ' , when they ai n't well , , ' replied Mrs. Mann as she opened a corner cupboard , and took down a bottle and glass .
I 'll not deceive you , .
'Do you give the children , Mrs .
inquired , following with his eyes the interesting process of mixing .
'Ah , bless 'em , that I do , dear as it is , ' replied the nurse .
' I could n't see 'em suffer before my very eyes , you know sir . '
'No ' ; said approvingly ; 'no , you could not .
You are a humane woman , Mrs .
( Here she set down the glass . )
' I shall take a early opportunity of mentioning it to the board , Mrs .
( He drew it towards him . )
'You feel as a mother , Mrs .
' I -- I drink your health with cheerfulness , Mrs. Mann ' ; and he swallowed half of it .
'And now about business , ' said the beadle , taking out a leathern pocket-book .
'The child that was half-baptized , is nine year old to-day . '
interposed Mrs. Mann , inflaming her left eye with the corner of her apron .
'And notwithstanding a offered reward of ten pound , which was afterwards increased to twenty pound .
Notwithstanding the most superlative , and , I may say , supernat'ral exertions on the part of this parish , ' said , 'we have never been able to discover who is his father , or what was his mother 's settlement , name , or condition . '
Mrs. Mann raised her hands in astonishment ; but added , after a moment 's reflection , 'How comes he to have any name at all , then ? '
The beadle drew himself up with great pride , and said , ' I inwented it . '
We name our fondlings in alphabetical order .
The last was a S , -- Swubble , I named him .
This was a T , -- Twist , I named _him_ .
The next one comes will be , and the next Vilkins .
I have got names ready made to the end of the alphabet , and all the way through it again , when we come to Z . '
'Why , you 're quite a literary character , sir ! '
'Well , well , ' said the beadle , evidently gratified with the compliment ; 'perhaps I may be .
Perhaps I may be , Mrs .
He finished the gin-and-water , and added , 'Oliver being now too old to remain here , the board have determined to have him back into the house .
I have come out myself to take him there .
So let me see him at once . '
' I 'll fetch him directly , ' said Mrs. Mann , leaving the room for that purpose .
Oliver , having had by this time as much of the outer coat of dirt which encrusted his face and hands , removed , as could be scrubbed off in one washing , was led into the room by his benevolent protectress .
'Make a bow to the gentleman , , ' said Mrs. Mann .
Oliver made a bow , which was divided between the beadle on the chair , and the cocked hat on the table .
'Will you go along with me , ? '
said , in a majestic voice .
was about to say that he would go along with anybody with great readiness , when , glancing upward , he caught sight of Mrs. Mann , who had got behind the beadle 's chair , and was shaking her fist at him with a furious countenance .
He took the hint at once , for the fist had been too often impressed upon his body not to be deeply impressed upon his recollection .
'Will she go with me ? '
'No , she ca n't , ' replied .
'But she 'll come and see you sometimes . '
This was no very great consolation to the child .
as he was , however , he had sense enough to make a feint of feeling great regret at going away .
It was no very difficult matter for the boy to call tears into his eyes .
and recent ill-usage are great assistants if you want to cry ; and cried very naturally indeed .
Mrs. Mann gave him a thousand embraces , and what wanted a great deal more , a piece of bread and butter , less he should seem too hungry when he got to the workhouse .
With the slice of bread in his hand , and the little brown-cloth parish cap on his head , was then led away by from the wretched home where one kind word or look had never lighted the gloom of his infant years .
And yet he burst into an agony of childish grief , as the cottage-gate closed after him .
Wretched as were the little companions in misery he was leaving behind , they were the only friends he had ever known ; and a sense of his loneliness in the great wide world , sank into the child 's heart for the first time .
walked on with long strides ; little Oliver , firmly grasping his gold-laced cuff , trotted beside him , inquiring at the end of every quarter of a mile whether they were 'nearly there . '
To these interrogations returned very brief and snappish replies ; for the temporary blandness which gin-and-water awakens in some bosoms had by this time evaporated ; and he was once again a beadle .
had not been within the walls of the workhouse a quarter of an hour , and had scarcely completed the demolition of a second slice of bread , when , who had handed him over to the care of an old woman , returned ; and , telling him it was a board night , informed him that the board had said he was to appear before it forthwith .
Not having a very clearly defined notion of what a live board was , was rather astounded by this intelligence , and was not quite certain whether he ought to laugh or cry .
He had no time to think about the matter , however ; for gave him a tap on the head , with his cane , to wake him up : and another on the back to make him lively : and bidding him to follow , conducted him into a large white-washed room , where eight or ten fat gentlemen were sitting round a table .
At the top of the table , seated in an arm-chair rather higher than the rest , was a particularly fat gentleman with a very round , red face .
'Bow to the board , ' said .
Oliver brushed away two or three tears that were lingering in his eyes ; and seeing no board but the table , fortunately bowed to that .
said the gentleman in the high chair .
was frightened at the sight of so many gentlemen , which made him tremble : and the beadle gave him another tap behind , which made him cry .
These two causes made him answer in a very low and hesitating voice ; whereupon a gentleman in a white waistcoat said he was a fool .
was a capital way of raising his spirits , and putting him quite at his ease .
'Boy , ' said the gentleman in the high chair , 'listen to me .
You know you 're an orphan , I suppose ? '
'The boy _is_ a fool -- I thought he was , ' said the gentleman in the white waistcoat .
said the gentleman who had spoken first .
'You know you 've got no father or mother , and that you were brought up by the parish , do n't you ? '
'Yes , sir , ' replied , weeping bitterly .
'What are you crying for ? '
inquired the gentleman in the white waistcoat .
And to be sure it was very extraordinary .
What _could_ the boy be crying for ?
' I hope you say your prayers every night , ' said another gentleman in a gruff voice ; 'and pray for the people who feed you , and take care of you -- like a . '
'Yes , sir , ' stammered the boy .
The gentleman who spoke last was unconsciously right .
It would have been very like a , and a marvellously good too , if had prayed for the people who fed and took care of _him_ .
But he had n't , because nobody had taught him .
You have come here to be educated , and taught a useful trade , ' said the red-faced gentleman in the high chair .
'So you 'll begin to pick oakum to-morrow morning at six o'clock , ' added the surly one in the white waistcoat .
For the combination of both these blessings in the one simple process of picking oakum , bowed low by the direction of the beadle , and was then hurried away to a large ward ; where , on a rough , hard bed , he sobbed himself to sleep .
What a novel illustration of the tender laws of !
They let the paupers go to sleep !
He little thought , as he lay sleeping in happy unconsciousness of all around him , that the board had that very day arrived at a decision which would exercise the most material influence over all his future fortunes .
And this was it : The members of this board were very sage , deep , philosophical men ; and when they came to turn their attention to the workhouse , they found out at once , what ordinary folks would never have discovered -- the poor people liked it !
It was a regular place of public entertainment for the poorer classes ; a tavern where there was nothing to pay ; a public breakfast , dinner , tea , and supper all the year round ; a brick and mortar elysium , where it was all play and no work .
said the board , looking very knowing ; 'we are the fellows to set this to rights ; we 'll stop it all , in no time . '
So , they established the rule , that all poor people should have the alternative ( for they would compel nobody , not they ) , of being starved by a gradual process in the house , or by a quick one out of it .
With this view , they contracted with the water-works to lay on an unlimited supply of water ; and with a corn-factor to supply periodically small quantities of oatmeal ; and issued three meals of thin gruel a day , with an onion twice a week , and half a roll of .
They made a great many other wise and humane regulations , having reference to the ladies , which it is not necessary to repeat ; kindly undertook to divorce poor married people , in consequence of the great expense of a suit in ' ; and , instead of compelling a man to support his family , as they had theretofore done , took his family away from him , and made him a bachelor !
There is no saying how many applicants for relief , under these last two heads , might have started up in all classes of society , if it had not been coupled with the workhouse ; but the board were long-headed men , and had provided for this difficulty .
The relief was inseparable from the workhouse and the gruel ; and that frightened people .
For the first six months after was removed , the system was in full operation .
It was rather expensive at first , in consequence of the increase in the undertaker 's bill , and the necessity of taking in the clothes of all the paupers , which fluttered loosely on their wasted , shrunken forms , after a week or two 's gruel .
But the number of workhouse inmates got thin as well as the paupers ; and the board were in ecstasies .
The room in which the boys were fed , was a large stone hall , with a copper at one end : out of which the master , dressed in an apron for the purpose , and assisted by one or two women , ladled the gruel at mealtimes .
Of this festive composition each boy had one porringer , and no more -- except on occasions of great public rejoicing , when he had two ounces and a quarter of bread besides .
The bowls never wanted washing .
The boys polished them with their spoons till they shone again ; and when they had performed this operation ( which never took very long , the spoons being nearly as large as the bowls ) , they would sit staring at the copper , with such eager eyes , as if they could have devoured the very bricks of which it was composed ; employing themselves , meanwhile , in sucking their fingers most assiduously , with the view of catching up any stray splashes of gruel that might have been cast thereon .
Boys have generally excellent appetites .
and his companions suffered the tortures of slow starvation for three months : at last they got so voracious and wild with hunger , that one boy , who was tall for his age , and had n't been used to that sort of thing ( for his father had kept a small cook-shop ) , hinted darkly to his companions , that unless he had another basin of gruel per diem , he was afraid he might some night happen to eat the boy who slept next him , who happened to be a weakly youth of tender age .
He had a wild , hungry eye ; and they implicitly believed him .
A council was held ; lots were cast who should walk up to the master after supper that evening , and ask for more ; and it fell to .
The evening arrived ; the boys took their places .
The master , in his cook 's uniform , stationed himself at the copper ; his pauper assistants ranged themselves behind him ; the gruel was served out ; and a long grace was said over the short commons .
The gruel disappeared ; the boys whispered each other , and winked at ; while his next neighbors nudged him .
as he was , he was desperate with hunger , and reckless with misery .
He rose from the table ; and advancing to the master , basin and spoon in hand , said : somewhat alarmed at his own temerity : 'Please , sir , I want some more . '
The master was a fat , healthy man ; but he turned very pale .
He gazed in stupefied astonishment on the small rebel for some seconds , and then clung for support to the copper .
The assistants were paralysed with wonder ; the boys with fear .
said the master at length , in a faint voice .
'Please , sir , ' replied , ' I want some more . '
The master aimed a blow at 's head with the ladle ; pinioned him in his arm ; and shrieked aloud for the beadle .
The board were sitting in solemn conclave , when rushed into the room in great excitement , and addressing the gentleman in the high chair , said , 'Mr .
, I beg your pardon , sir !
has asked for more ! '
There was a general start .
was depicted on every countenance .
'Compose yourself , , and answer me distinctly .
Do I understand that he asked for more , after he had eaten the supper allotted by the dietary ? '
'He did , sir , ' replied .
'That boy will be hung , ' said the gentleman in the white waistcoat .
' I know that boy will be hung . '
controverted the prophetic gentleman 's opinion .
An animated discussion took place .
was ordered into instant confinement ; and a bill was next morning pasted on the outside of the gate , offering a reward of five pounds to anybody who would take off the hands of the parish .
In other words , five pounds and were offered to any man or woman who wanted an apprentice to any trade , business , or calling .
' I never was more convinced of anything in my life , ' said the gentleman in the white waistcoat , as he knocked at the gate and read the bill next morning : ' I never was more convinced of anything in my life , than I am that that boy will come to be hung . '
As I purpose to show in the sequel whether the white waistcoated gentleman was right or not , I should perhaps mar the interest of this narrative ( supposing it to possess any at all ) , if I ventured to hint just yet , whether the life of had this violent termination or no .
For a week after the commission of the impious and profane offence of asking for more , remained a close prisoner in the dark and solitary room to which he had been consigned by the wisdom and mercy of the board .
It appears , at first sight not unreasonable to suppose , that , if he had entertained a becoming feeling of respect for the prediction of the gentleman in the white waistcoat , he would have established that sage individual 's prophetic character , once and for ever , by tying one end of his pocket-handkerchief to a hook in the wall , and attaching himself to the other .
To the performance of this feat , however , there was one obstacle : namely , that pocket-handkerchiefs being decided articles of luxury , had been , for all future times and ages , removed from the noses of paupers by the express order of the board , in council assembled : solemnly given and pronounced under their hands and seals .
There was a still greater obstacle in 's youth and childishness .
He only cried bitterly all day ; and , when the long , dismal night came on , spread his little hands before his eyes to shut out the darkness , and crouching in the corner , tried to sleep : ever and anon waking with a start and tremble , and drawing himself closer and closer to the wall , as if to feel even its cold hard surface were a protection in the gloom and loneliness which surrounded him .
Let it not be supposed by the enemies of 'the system , ' that , during the period of his solitary incarceration , was denied the benefit of exercise , the pleasure of society , or the advantages of religious consolation .
As for exercise , it was nice cold weather , and he was allowed to perform his ablutions every morning under the pump , in a stone yard , in the presence of , who prevented his catching cold , and caused a tingling sensation to pervade his frame , by repeated applications of the cane .
As for society , he was carried every other day into the hall where the boys dined , and there sociably flogged as a public warning and example .
And so far from being denied the advantages of religious consolation , he was kicked into the same apartment every evening at prayer-time , and there permitted to listen to , and console his mind with , a general supplication of the boys , containing a special clause , therein inserted by authority of the board , in which they entreated to be made good , virtuous , contented , and obedient , and to be guarded from the sins and vices of : whom the supplication distinctly set forth to be under the exclusive patronage and protection of the powers of wickedness , and an article direct from the manufactory of the very Devil himself .
It chanced one morning , while 's affairs were in this auspicious and comfortable state , that , chimney-sweep , went his way down the , deeply cogitating in his mind his ways and means of paying certain arrears of rent , for which his landlord had become rather pressing .
's most sanguine estimate of his finances could not raise them within full five pounds of the desired amount ; and , in a species of arithmetical desperation , he was alternately cudgelling his brains and his donkey , when passing the workhouse , his eyes encountered the bill on the gate .
said to the donkey .
The donkey was in a state of profound abstraction : wondering , probably , whether he was destined to be regaled with a cabbage-stalk or two when he had disposed of the two sacks of soot with which the little cart was laden ; so , without noticing the word of command , he jogged onward .
growled a fierce imprecation on the donkey generally , but more particularly on his eyes ; and , running after him , bestowed a blow on his head , which would inevitably have beaten in any skull but a donkey 's .
Then , catching hold of the bridle , he gave his jaw a sharp wrench , by way of gentle reminder that he was not his own master ; and by these means turned him round .
He then gave him another blow on the head , just to stun him till he came back again .
Having completed these arrangements , he walked up to the gate , to read the bill .
The gentleman with the white waistcoat was standing at the gate with his hands behind him , after having delivered himself of some profound sentiments in the board-room .
Having witnessed the little dispute between and the donkey , he smiled joyously when that person came up to read the bill , for he saw at once that was exactly the sort of master wanted .
smiled , too , as he perused the document ; for five pounds was just the sum he had been wishing for ; and , as to the boy with which it was encumbered , , knowing what the dietary of the workhouse was , well knew he would be a nice small pattern , just the very thing for register stoves .
So , he spelt the bill through again , from beginning to end ; and then , touching his fur cap in token of humility , accosted the gentleman in the white waistcoat .
'This here boy , sir , wot the parish wants to 'prentis , ' said .
'Ay , my man , ' said the gentleman in the white waistcoat , with a condescending smile .
'If the parish vould like him to learn a right pleasant trade , in a good 'spectable chimbley-sweepin ' bisness , ' said , ' I wants a 'prentis , and I am ready to take him . '
'Walk in , ' said the gentleman in the white waistcoat .
Gamfield having lingered behind , to give the donkey another blow on the head , and another wrench of the jaw , as a caution not to run away in his absence , followed the gentleman with the white waistcoat into the room where had first seen him .
'It 's a nasty trade , ' said , when had again stated his wish .
'Young boys have been smothered in chimneys before now , ' said another gentleman .
'That 's acause they damped the straw afore they lit it in the chimbley to make 'em come down again , ' said ; 'that 's all smoke , and no blaze ; vereas smoke ai n't o ' no use at all in making a boy come down , for it only sinds him to sleep , and that 's wot he likes .
is wery obstinit , and wery lazy , ' l'men , and there 's nothink like a good hot blaze to make 'em come down vith a run .
It 's humane too , gen ' l'men , acause , even if they 've stuck in the chimbley , roasting their feet makes 'em struggle to hextricate theirselves . '
The gentleman in the white waistcoat appeared very much amused by this explanation ; but his mirth was speedily checked by a look from .
The board then proceeded to converse among themselves for a few minutes , but in so low a tone , that the words 'saving of expenditure , ' 'looked well in the accounts , ' 'have a printed report published , ' were alone audible .
These only chanced to be heard , indeed , or account of their being very frequently repeated with great emphasis .
At length the whispering ceased ; and the members of the board , having resumed their seats and their solemnity , said : 'We have considered your proposition , and we do n't approve of it . '
'Not at all , ' said the gentleman in the white waistcoat .
'Decidedly not , ' added the other members .
As did happen to labour under the slight imputation of having bruised three or four boys to death already , it occurred to him that the board had , perhaps , in some unaccountable freak , taken it into their heads that this extraneous circumstance ought to influence their proceedings .
It was very unlike their general mode of doing business , if they had ; but still , as he had no particular wish to revive the rumour , he twisted his cap in his hands , and walked slowly from the table .
'So you wo n't let me have him , gen ' l'men ? '
said , pausing near the door .
'No , ' replied ; 'at least , as it 's a nasty business , we think you ought to take something less than the premium we offered . '
's countenance brightened , as , with a quick step , he returned to the table , and said , 'What 'll you give , gen ' l'men ?
Do n't be too hard on a poor man .
' I should say , three pound ten was plenty , ' said .
'Ten shillings too much , ' said the gentleman in the white waistcoat .
said ; 'say four pound , gen ' l'men .
Say four pound , and you 've got rid of him for good and all .
'Three pound ten , ' repeated , firmly .
I 'll split the diff'erence , gen ' l'men , ' urged Gamfield .
'Not a farthing more , ' was the firm reply of .
'You 're desperate hard upon me , gen ' l'men , ' said , wavering .
said the gentleman in the white waistcoat .
'He 'd be cheap with nothing at all , as a premium .
Take him , you silly fellow !
He 's just the boy for you .
He wants the stick , now and then : it 'll do him good ; and his board need n't come very expensive , for he has n't been overfed since he was born .
gave an arch look at the faces round the table , and , observing a smile on all of them , gradually broke into a smile himself .
, was at once instructed that and his indentures were to be conveyed before the magistrate , for signature and approval , that very afternoon .
In pursuance of this determination , little Oliver , to his excessive astonishment , was released from bondage , and ordered to put himself into a clean shirt .
He had hardly achieved this very unusual gymnastic performance , when brought him , with his own hands , a basin of gruel , and the holiday allowance of two ounces and a quarter of bread .
At this tremendous sight , began to cry very piteously : thinking , not unnaturally , that the board must have determined to kill him for some useful purpose , or they never would have begun to fatten him up in that way .
'Do n't make your eyes red , , but eat your food and be thankful , ' said , in a tone of impressive pomposity .
'You 're a going to be made a 'prentice of , . '
'Yes , , ' said .
'The kind and blessed gentleman which is so many parents to you , , when you have none of your own : are a going to 'prentice ' you : and to set you up in life , and make a man of you : although the expense to the parish is three pound ten ! -- three pound ten , Oliver ! -- seventy shillins -- one hundred and forty sixpences ! -- and all for a naughty orphan which nobody ca n't love . '
As paused to take breath , after delivering this address in an awful voice , the tears rolled down the poor child 's face , and he sobbed bitterly .
'Come , ' said , somewhat less pompously , for it was gratifying to his feelings to observe the effect his eloquence had produced ; 'Come , Oliver !
Wipe your eyes with the cuffs of your jacket , and do n't cry into your gruel ; that 's a very foolish action , . '
It certainly was , for there was quite enough water in it already .
On their way to the magistrate , instructed that all he would have to do , would be to look very happy , and say , when the gentleman asked him if he wanted to be apprenticed , that he should like it very much indeed ; both of which injunctions promised to obey : the rather as threw in a gentle hint , that if he failed in either particular , there was no telling what would be done to him .
When they arrived at the office , he was shut up in a little room by himself , and admonished by to stay there , until he came back to fetch him .
There the boy remained , with a palpitating heart , for half an hour .
At the expiration of which time thrust in his head , unadorned with the cocked hat , and said aloud : 'Now , , my dear , come to the gentleman . '
As said this , he put on a grim and threatening look , and added , in a low voice , 'Mind what I told you , you young rascal ! '
Oliver stared innocently in 's face at this somewhat contradictory style of address ; but that gentleman prevented his offering any remark thereupon , by leading him at once into an adjoining room : the door of which was open .
It was a large room , with a great window .
Behind a desk , sat two old gentleman with powdered heads : one of whom was reading the newspaper ; while the other was perusing , with the aid of a pair of tortoise-shell spectacles , a small piece of parchment which lay before him .
was standing in front of the desk on one side ; and , with a partially washed face , on the other ; while two or three bluff-looking men , in top-boots , were lounging about .
The old gentleman with the spectacles gradually dozed off , over the little bit of parchment ; and there was a short pause , after had been stationed by in front of the desk .
'This is the boy , your worship , ' said .
The old gentleman who was reading the newspaper raised his head for a moment , and pulled the other old gentleman by the sleeve ; whereupon , the last-mentioned old gentleman woke up .
'Oh , is this the boy ? '
'This is him , sir , ' replied .
'Bow to the magistrate , my dear . '
Oliver roused himself , and made his best obeisance .
He had been wondering , with his eyes fixed on the magistrates ' powder , whether all boards were born with that white stuff on their heads , and were boards from thenceforth on that account .
'Well , ' said the old gentleman , ' I suppose he 's fond of chimney-sweeping ? '
'He doats on it , your worship , ' replied ; giving Oliver a sly pinch , to intimate that he had better not say he did n't .
'And he _will_ be a sweep , will he ? '
'If we was to bind him to any other trade to-morrow , he 'd run away simultaneous , your worship , ' replied .
'And this man that 's to be his master -- you , sir -- you 'll treat him well , and feed him , and do all that sort of thing , will you ? '
'When I says I will , I means I will , ' replied doggedly .
'You 're a rough speaker , my friend , but you look an honest , open-hearted man , ' said the old gentleman : turning his spectacles in the direction of the candidate for 's premium , whose villainous countenance was a regular stamped receipt for cruelty .
But the magistrate was half blind and half childish , so he could n't reasonably be expected to discern what other people did .
' I hope I am , sir , ' said , with an ugly leer .
' I have no doubt you are , my friend , ' replied the old gentleman : fixing his spectacles more firmly on his nose , and looking about him for the inkstand .
It was the critical moment of 's fate .
If the inkstand had been where the old gentleman thought it was , he would have dipped his pen into it , and signed the indentures , and would have been straightway hurried off .
But , as it chanced to be immediately under his nose , it followed , as a matter of course , that he looked all over his desk for it , without finding it ; and happening in the course of his search to look straight before him , his gaze encountered the pale and terrified face of : who , despite all the admonitory looks and pinches of , was regarding the repulsive countenance of his future master , with a mingled expression of horror and fear , too palpable to be mistaken , even by a half-blind magistrate .
The old gentleman stopped , laid down his pen , and looked from to ; who attempted to take snuff with a cheerful and unconcerned aspect .
said the old gentleman , 'you look pale and alarmed .
'Stand a little away from him , , ' said the other magistrate : laying aside the paper , and leaning forward with an expression of interest .
'Now , boy , tell us what 's the matter : do n't be afraid . '
fell on his knees , and clasping his hands together , prayed that they would order him back to the dark room -- that they would starve him -- beat him -- kill him if they pleased -- rather than send him away with that dreadful man .
said , raising his hands and eyes with most impressive solemnity .
of all the artful and designing orphans that ever I see , , you are one of the most bare-facedest . '
'Hold your tongue , , ' said the second old gentleman , when had given vent to this compound adjective .
' I beg your worship 's pardon , ' said , incredulous of having heard aright .
'Did your worship speak to me ? '
was stupefied with astonishment .
A beadle ordered to hold his tongue !
The old gentleman in the tortoise-shell spectacles looked at his companion , he nodded significantly .
'We refuse to sanction these indentures , ' said the old gentleman : tossing aside the piece of parchment as he spoke .
' I hope , ' stammered : ' I hope the magistrates will not form the opinion that the authorities have been guilty of any improper conduct , on the unsupported testimony of a child . '
'The magistrates are not called upon to pronounce any opinion on the matter , ' said the second old gentleman sharply .
'Take the boy back to the workhouse , and treat him kindly .
He seems to want it . '
That same evening , the gentleman in the white waistcoat most positively and decidedly affirmed , not only that would be hung , but that he would be drawn and quartered into the bargain .
shook his head with gloomy mystery , and said he wished he might come to good ; whereunto replied , that he wished he might come to him ; which , although he agreed with the beadle in most matters , would seem to be a wish of a totally opposite description .
The next morning , the public were once informed that was again To Let , and that five pounds would be paid to anybody who would take possession of him .
In great families , when an advantageous place can not be obtained , either in possession , reversion , remainder , or expectancy , for the young man who is growing up , it is a very general custom to send him to sea .
The board , in imitation of so wise and salutary an example , took counsel together on the expediency of shipping off , in some small trading vessel bound to a good unhealthy port .
This suggested itself as the very best thing that could possibly be done with him : the probability being , that the skipper would flog him to death , in a playful mood , some day after dinner , or would knock his brains out with an iron bar ; both pastimes being , as is pretty generally known , very favourite and common recreations among gentleman of that class .
The more the case presented itself to the board , in this point of view , the more manifold the advantages of the step appeared ; so , they came to the conclusion that the only way of providing for effectually , was to send him to sea without delay .
had been despatched to make various preliminary inquiries , with the view of finding out some captain or other who wanted a cabin-boy without any friends ; and was returning to the workhouse to communicate the result of his mission ; when he encountered at the gate , no less a person than , the parochial undertaker .
was a tall gaunt , large-jointed man , attired in a suit of threadbare black , with darned cotton stockings of the same colour , and shoes to answer .
His features were not naturally intended to wear a smiling aspect , but he was in general rather given to professional jocosity .
His step was elastic , and his face betokened inward pleasantry , as he advanced to , and shook him cordially by the hand .
' I have taken the measure of the two women that died last night , , ' said the undertaker .
'You 'll make your fortune , , ' said the beadle , as he thrust his thumb and forefinger into the proffered snuff-box of the undertaker : which was an ingenious little model of a patent coffin .
' I say you 'll make your fortune , , ' repeated , tapping the undertaker on the shoulder , in a friendly manner , with his cane .
said the undertaker in a tone which half admitted and half disputed the probability of the event .
'The prices allowed by the board are very small , Mr .
'So are the coffins , ' replied the beadle : with precisely as near an approach to a laugh as a great official ought to indulge in .
was much tickled at this : as of course he ought to be ; and laughed a long time without cessation .
'Well , well , , ' he said at length , 'there 's no denying that , since the new system of feeding has come in , the coffins are something narrower and more shallow than they used to be ; but we must have some profit , .
Well-seasoned timber is an expensive article , sir ; and all the iron handles come , by canal , from . '
'Well , well , ' said , 'every trade has its drawbacks .
A fair profit is , of course , allowable . '
'Of course , of course , ' replied the undertaker ; 'and if I do n't get a profit upon this or that particular article , why , I make it up in the long-run , you see -- he !
'Just so , ' said .
'Though I must say , ' continued the undertaker , resuming the current of observations which the beadle had interrupted : 'though I must say , , that I have to contend against one very great disadvantage : which is , that all the stout people go off the quickest .
The people who have been better off , and have paid rates for many years , are the first to sink when they come into the house ; and let me tell you , , that three or four inches over one 's calculation makes a great hole in one 's profits : especially when one has a family to provide for , sir . '
As said this , with the becoming indignation of an ill-used man ; and as felt that it rather tended to convey a reflection on the honour of the parish ; the latter gentleman thought it advisable to change the subject .
Twist being uppermost in his mind , he made him his theme .
'By the bye , ' said , 'you do n't know anybody who wants a boy , do you ?
A porochial 'prentis , who is at present a dead-weight ; a millstone , as I may say , round the porochial throat ?
Liberal terms , , liberal terms ? '
As spoke , he raised his cane to the bill above him , and gave three distinct raps upon the words 'five pounds ' : which were printed thereon in capitals of gigantic size .
said the undertaker : taking by the gilt-edged lappel of his official coat ; 'that 's just the very thing I wanted to speak to you about .
You know -- dear me , what a very elegant button this is , !
I never noticed it before . '
'Yes , I think it rather pretty , ' said the beadle , glancing proudly downwards at the large brass buttons which embellished his coat .
'The die is the same as the porochial seal -- the healing the sick and bruised man .
The board presented it to me on 's morning , .
I put it on , I remember , for the first time , to attend the inquest on that reduced tradesman , who died in a doorway at midnight . '
' I recollect , ' said the undertaker .
'The jury brought it in , `` Died from exposure to the cold , and want of the common necessaries of life , '' did n't they ? '
'And they made it a special verdict , I think , ' said the undertaker , 'by adding some words to the effect , that if the relieving officer had -- ' 'Tush !
'If the board attended to all the nonsense that ignorant jurymen talk , they 'd have enough to do . '
'Very true , ' said the undertaker ; 'they would indeed . '
'Juries , ' said , grasping his cane tightly , as was his wont when working into a passion : 'juries is ineddicated , vulgar , grovelling wretches . '
'So they are , ' said the undertaker .
'They have n't no more philosophy nor political economy about 'em than that , ' said the beadle , snapping his fingers contemptuously .
'No more they have , ' acquiesced the undertaker .
' I despise 'em , ' said the beadle , growing very red in the face .
'So do I , ' rejoined the undertaker .
'And I only wish we 'd a jury of the independent sort , in the house for a week or two , ' said the beadle ; 'the rules and regulations of the board would soon bring their spirit down for 'em . '
'Let 'em alone for that , ' replied the undertaker .
So saying , he smiled , approvingly : to calm the rising wrath of the indignant parish officer .
Mr lifted off his cocked hat ; took a handkerchief from the inside of the crown ; wiped from his forehead the perspiration which his rage had engendered ; fixed the cocked hat on again ; and , turning to the undertaker , said in a calmer voice : 'Well ; what about the boy ? '
replied the undertaker ; 'why , you know , , I pay a good deal towards the poor 's rates . '
'Well , ' replied the undertaker , ' I was thinking that if I pay so much towards 'em , I 've a right to get as much out of 'em as I can , ; and so -- I think I 'll take the boy myself . '
grasped the undertaker by the arm , and led him into the building .
was closeted with the board for five minutes ; and it was arranged that should go to him that evening 'upon liking ' -- a phrase which means , in the case of a parish apprentice , that if the master find , upon a short trial , that he can get enough work out of a boy without putting too much food into him , he shall have him for a term of years , to do what he likes with .
When little was taken before 'the gentlemen ' that evening ; and informed that he was to go , that night , as general house-lad to a coffin-maker 's ; and that if he complained of his situation , or ever came back to the parish again , he would be sent to sea , there to be drowned , or knocked on the head , as the case might be , he evinced so little emotion , that they by common consent pronounced him a hardened young rascal , and ordered to remove him forthwith .
Now , although it was very natural that the board , of all people in the world , should feel in a great state of virtuous astonishment and horror at the smallest tokens of want of feeling on the part of anybody , they were rather out , in this particular instance .
The simple fact was , that , instead of possessing too little feeling , possessed rather too much ; and was in a fair way of being reduced , for life , to a state of brutal stupidity and sullenness by the ill usage he had received .
He heard the news of his destination , in perfect silence ; and , having had his luggage put into his hand -- which was not very difficult to carry , inasmuch as it was all comprised within the limits of a brown paper parcel , about half a foot square by three inches deep -- he pulled his cap over his eyes ; and once more attaching himself to 's coat cuff , was led away by that dignitary to a new scene of suffering .
For some time , drew along , without notice or remark ; for the beadle carried his head very erect , as a beadle always should : and , it being a windy day , little was completely enshrouded by the skirts of 's coat as they blew open , and disclosed to great advantage his flapped waistcoat and drab plush knee-breeches .
As they drew near to their destination , however , thought it expedient to look down , and see that the boy was in good order for inspection by his new master : which he accordingly did , with a fit and becoming air of gracious patronage .
'Yes , sir , ' replied , in a low , tremulous voice .
'Pull that cap off your eyes , and hold up your head , sir . '
Although did as he was desired , at once ; and passed the back of his unoccupied hand briskly across his eyes , he left a tear in them when he looked up at his conductor .
As gazed sternly upon him , it rolled down his cheek .
It was followed by another , and another .
The child made a strong effort , but it was an unsuccessful one .
Withdrawing his other hand from 's he covered his face with both ; and wept until the tears sprung out from between his chin and bony fingers .
exclaimed , stopping short , and darting at his little charge a look of intense malignity .
Of _all_ the ungratefullest , and worst-disposed boys as ever I see , , you are the -- ' 'No , no , sir , ' sobbed , clinging to the hand which held the well-known cane ; 'no , no , sir ; I will be good indeed ; indeed , indeed I will , sir !
I am a very little boy , sir ; and it is so -- so -- ' 'So what ? '
inquired in amazement .
sir , do n't , do n't pray be cross to me ! '
The child beat his hand upon his heart ; and looked in his companion 's face , with tears of real agony .
regarded 's piteous and helpless look , with some astonishment , for a few seconds ; hemmed three or four times in a husky manner ; and after muttering something about 'that troublesome cough , ' bade dry his eyes and be a good boy .
Then once more taking his hand , he walked on with him in silence .
The undertaker , who had just put up the shutters of his shop , was making some entries in his day-book by the light of a most appropriate dismal candle , when entered .
said the undertaker ; looking up from the book , and pausing in the middle of a word ; 'is that you , Bumble ? '
'No one else , , ' replied the beadle .
that 's the boy , is it ? '
said the undertaker : raising the candle above his head , to get a better view of .
, will you have the goodness to come here a moment , my dear ? '
Mrs. emerged from a little room behind the shop , and presented the form of a short , then , squeezed-up woman , with a vixenish countenance .
'My dear , ' said , deferentially , 'this is the boy from the workhouse that I told you of . '
said the undertaker 's wife , 'he 's very small . '
'Why , he _is_ rather small , ' replied : looking at as if it were his fault that he was no bigger ; 'he is small .
But he 'll grow , Mrs. Sowerberry -- he 'll grow . '
I dare say he will , ' replied the lady pettishly , 'on our victuals and our drink .
I see no saving in parish children , not I ; for they always cost more to keep , than they 're worth .
However , men always think they know best .
downstairs , little bag o ' bones . '
With this , the undertaker 's wife opened a side door , and pushed down a steep flight of stairs into a stone cell , damp and dark : forming the ante-room to the coal-cellar , and denominated 'kitchen ' ; wherein sat a slatternly girl , in shoes down at heel , and blue worsted stockings very much out of repair .
'Here , , ' said , who had followed down , 'give this boy some of the cold bits that were put by for .
He has n't come home since the morning , so he may go without 'em .
I dare say the boy is n't too dainty to eat 'em -- are you , boy ? '
, whose eyes had glistened at the mention of meat , and who was trembling with eagerness to devour it , replied in the negative ; and a plateful of coarse broken victuals was set before him .
I wish some well-fed philosopher , whose meat and drink turn to gall within him ; whose blood is ice , whose heart is iron ; could have seen clutching at the dainty viands that the dog had neglected .
I wish he could have witnessed the horrible avidity with which tore the bits asunder with all the ferocity of famine .
There is only one thing I should like better ; and that would be to see the Philosopher making the same sort of meal himself , with the same relish .
'Well , ' said the undertaker 's wife , when had finished his supper : which she had regarded in silent horror , and with fearful auguries of his future appetite : 'have you done ? '
There being nothing eatable within his reach , replied in the affirmative .
'Then come with me , ' said Mrs. Sowerberry : taking up a dim and dirty lamp , and leading the way upstairs ; 'your bed 's under the counter .
You do n't mind sleeping among the coffins , I suppose ?
But it does n't much matter whether you do or do n't , for you ca n't sleep anywhere else .
; do n't keep me here all night ! '
Oliver lingered no longer , but meekly followed his new mistress .
Oliver , being left to himself in the undertaker 's shop , set the lamp down on a workman 's bench , and gazed timidly about him with a feeling of awe and dread , which many people a good deal older than he will be at no loss to understand .
An unfinished coffin on black tressels , which stood in the middle of the shop , looked so gloomy and death-like that a cold tremble came over him , every time his eyes wandered in the direction of the dismal object : from which he almost expected to see some frightful form slowly rear its head , to drive him mad with terror .
Against the wall were ranged , in regular array , a long row of elm boards cut in the same shape : looking in the dim light , like high-shouldered ghosts with their hands in their breeches pockets .
Coffin-plates , elm-chips , bright-headed nails , and shreds of black cloth , lay scattered on the floor ; and the wall behind the counter was ornamented with a lively representation of two mutes in very stiff neckcloths , on duty at a large private door , with a hearse drawn by four black steeds , approaching in the distance .
The shop was close and hot .
The atmosphere seemed tainted with the smell of coffins .
The recess beneath the counter in which his flock mattress was thrust , looked like a grave .
Nor were these the only dismal feelings which depressed .
He was alone in a strange place ; and we all know how chilled and desolate the best of us will sometimes feel in such a situation .
The boy had no friends to care for , or to care for him .
The regret of no recent separation was fresh in his mind ; the absence of no loved and well-remembered face sank heavily into his heart .
But his heart was heavy , notwithstanding ; and he wished , as he crept into his narrow bed , that that were his coffin , and that he could be lain in a calm and lasting sleep in the churchyard ground , with the tall grass waving gently above his head , and the sound of the old deep bell to soothe him in his sleep .
was awakened in the morning , by a loud kicking at the outside of the shop-door : which , before he could huddle on his clothes , was repeated , in an angry and impetuous manner , about twenty-five times .
When he began to undo the chain , the legs desisted , and a voice began .
'Open the door , will yer ? '
cried the voice which belonged to the legs which had kicked at the door .
' I will , directly , sir , ' replied : undoing the chain , and turning the key .
' I suppose yer the new boy , ai n't yer ? '
said the voice through the key-hole .
'Then I 'll whop yer when I get in , ' said the voice ; 'you just see if I do n't , that 's all , my work'us brat ! '
and having made this obliging promise , the voice began to whistle .
had been too often subjected to the process to which the very expressive monosyllable just recorded bears reference , to entertain the smallest doubt that the owner of the voice , whoever he might be , would redeem his pledge , most honourably .
He drew back the bolts with a trembling hand , and opened the door .
For a second or two , Oliver glanced up the street , and down the street , and over the way : impressed with the belief that the unknown , who had addressed him through the key-hole , had walked a few paces off , to warm himself ; for nobody did he see but a big charity-boy , sitting on a post in front of the house , eating a slice of bread and butter : which he cut into wedges , the size of his mouth , with a clasp-knife , and then consumed with great dexterity .
' I beg your pardon , sir , ' said at length : seeing that no other visitor made his appearance ; 'did you knock ? '
' I kicked , ' replied the charity-boy .
'Did you want a coffin , sir ? '
At this , the charity-boy looked monstrous fierce ; and said that would want one before long , if he cut jokes with his superiors in that way .
'Yer do n't know who I am , I suppose , Work'us ? '
said the charity-boy , in continuation : descending from the top of the post , meanwhile , with edifying gravity .
' I 'm , ' said the charity-boy , 'and you 're under me .
Take down the shutters , yer idle young ruffian ! '
With this , administered a kick to , and entered the shop with a dignified air , which did him great credit .
It is difficult for a large-headed , small-eyed youth , of lumbering make and heavy countenance , to look dignified under any circumstances ; but it is more especially so , when superadded to these personal attractions are a red nose and yellow smalls .
Oliver , having taken down the shutters , and broken a pane of glass in his effort to stagger away beneath the weight of the first one to a small court at the side of the house in which they were kept during the day , was graciously assisted by : who having consoled him with the assurance that 'he 'd catch it , ' condescended to help him .
came down soon after .
Shortly afterwards , Mrs. appeared .
Oliver having 'caught it , ' in fulfilment of 's prediction , followed that young gentleman down the stairs to breakfast .
'Come near the fire , , ' said .
' I saved a nice little bit of bacon for you from master 's breakfast .
, shut that door at 's back , and take them bits that I 've put out on the cover of the bread-pan .
There 's your tea ; take it away to that box , and drink it there , and make haste , for they 'll want you to mind the shop .
said , 'what a rum creature you are !
Why do n't you let the boy alone ? '
'Why everybody lets him alone enough , for the matter of that .
Neither his father nor his mother will ever interfere with him .
All his relations let him have his own way pretty well .
said , bursting into a hearty laugh , in which she was joined by ; after which they both looked scornfully at poor , as he sat shivering on the box in the coldest corner of the room , and ate the stale pieces which had been specially reserved for him .
was a charity-boy , but not a workhouse orphan .
No chance-child was he , for he could trace his genealogy all the way back to his parents , who lived hard by ; his mother being a washerwoman , and his father a drunken soldier , discharged with a wooden leg , and a diurnal pension of twopence-halfpenny and an unstateable fraction .
The shop-boys in the neighbourhood had long been in the habit of branding in the public streets , with the ignominious epithets of 'leathers , ' 'charity , ' and the like ; and had bourne them without reply .
But , now that fortune had cast in his way a nameless orphan , at whom even the meanest could point the finger of scorn , he retorted on him with interest .
This affords charming food for contemplation .
It shows us what a beautiful thing human nature may be made to be ; and how impartially the same amiable qualities are developed in the finest lord and the dirtiest charity-boy .
had been sojourning at the undertaker 's some three weeks or a month .
and Mrs. Sowerberry -- the shop being shut up -- were taking their supper in the little back-parlour , when , after several deferential glances at his wife , said , 'My dear -- ' He was going to say more ; but , Mrs. Sowerberry looking up , with a peculiarly unpropitious aspect , he stopped short .
'Well , ' said Mrs. , sharply .
'Nothing , my dear , nothing , ' said .
'Not at all , my dear , ' said humbly .
' I thought you did n't want to hear , my dear .
I was only going to say -- ' 'Oh , do n't tell me what you were going to say , ' interposed Mrs. Sowerberry .
' I am nobody ; do n't consult me , pray .
_I_ do n't want to intrude upon your secrets . '
As Mrs. said this , she gave an hysterical laugh , which threatened violent consequences .
'But , my dear , ' said , ' I want to ask your advice . '
'No , no , do n't ask mine , ' replied Mrs. , in an affecting manner : 'ask somebody else 's . '
Here , there was another hysterical laugh , which frightened very much .
This is a very common and much-approved matrimonial course of treatment , which is often very effective .
It at once reduced to begging , as a special favour , to be allowed to say what Mrs. was most curious to hear .
After a short duration , the permission was most graciously conceded .
'It 's only about young Twist , my dear , ' said .
' A very good-looking boy , that , my dear . '
'He need be , for he eats enough , ' observed the lady .
'There 's an expression of melancholy in his face , my dear , ' resumed , 'which is very interesting .
He would make a delightful mute , my love . '
Mrs. looked up with an expression of considerable wonderment .
remarked it and , without allowing time for any observation on the good lady 's part , proceeded .
' I do n't mean a regular mute to attend grown-up people , my dear , but only for children 's practice .
It would be very new to have a mute in proportion , my dear .
You may depend upon it , it would have a superb effect . '
Mrs. , who had a good deal of taste in the undertaking way , was much struck by the novelty of this idea ; but , as it would have been compromising her dignity to have said so , under existing circumstances , she merely inquired , with much sharpness , why such an obvious suggestion had not presented itself to her husband 's mind before ?
rightly construed this , as an acquiescence in his proposition ; it was speedily determined , therefore , that should be at once initiated into the mysteries of the trade ; and , with this view , that he should accompany his master on the very next occasion of his services being required .
The occasion was not long in coming .
Half an hour after breakfast next morning , entered the shop ; and supporting his cane against the counter , drew forth his large leathern pocket-book : from which he selected a small scrap of paper , which he handed over to .
said the undertaker , glancing over it with a lively countenance ; 'an order for a coffin , eh ? '
'For a coffin first , and a porochial funeral afterwards , ' replied , fastening the strap of the leathern pocket-book : which , like himself , was very corpulent .
'Bayton , ' said the undertaker , looking from the scrap of paper to .
' I never heard the name before . '
shook his head , as he replied , 'Obstinate people , ; very obstinate .
, too , I 'm afraid , sir . '
exclaimed with a sneer .
'Oh , it 's sickening , ' replied the beadle .
'So it is , ' acquiesced the undertaker .
'We only heard of the family the night before last , ' said the beadle ; 'and we should n't have known anything about them , then , only a woman who lodges in the same house made an application to the porochial committee for them to send the porochial surgeon to see a woman as was very bad .
He had gone out to dinner ; but his 'prentice ( which is a very clever lad ) sent 'em some medicine in a blacking-bottle , offhand . '
'Ah , there 's promptness , ' said the undertaker .
'But what 's the consequence ; what 's the ungrateful behaviour of these rebels , sir ?
Why , the husband sends back word that the medicine wo n't suit his wife 's complaint , and so she sha n't take it -- says she sha n't take it , sir !
, strong , wholesome medicine , as was given with great success to two labourers and a coal-heaver , only a week before -- sent 'em for nothing , with a blackin'-bottle in , -- and he sends back word that she sha n't take it , sir ! '
As the atrocity presented itself to 's mind in full force , he struck the counter sharply with his cane , and became flushed with indignation .
'Well , ' said the undertaker , ' I ne -- ver -- did -- ' 'Never did , sir ! '
'No , nor nobody never did ; but now she 's dead , we 've got to bury her ; and that 's the direction ; and the sooner it 's done , the better . '
Thus saying , put on his cocked hat wrong side first , in a fever of parochial excitement ; and flounced out of the shop .
'Why , he was so angry , , that he forgot even to ask after you ! '
said , looking after the beadle as he strode down the street .
'Yes , sir , ' replied , who had carefully kept himself out of sight , during the interview ; and who was shaking from head to foot at the mere recollection of the sound of 's voice .
He need n't haven taken the trouble to shrink from 's glance , however ; for that functionary , on whom the prediction of the gentleman in the white waistcoat had made a very strong impression , thought that now the undertaker had got upon trial the subject was better avoided , until such time as he should be firmly bound for seven years , and all danger of his being returned upon the hands of the parish should be thus effectually and legally overcome .
'Well , ' said , taking up his hat , 'the sooner this job is done , the better .
, look after the shop .
Oliver , put on your cap , and come with me . '
obeyed , and followed his master on his professional mission .
They walked on , for some time , through the most crowded and densely inhabited part of the town ; and then , striking down a narrow street more dirty and miserable than any they had yet passed through , paused to look for the house which was the object of their search .
The houses on either side were high and large , but very old , and tenanted by people of the poorest class : as their neglected appearance would have sufficiently denoted , without the concurrent testimony afforded by the squalid looks of the few men and women who , with folded arms and bodies half doubled , occasionally skulked along .
A great many of the tenements had shop-fronts ; but these were fast closed , and mouldering away ; only the upper rooms being inhabited .
Some houses which had become insecure from age and decay , were prevented from falling into the street , by huge beams of wood reared against the walls , and firmly planted in the road ; but even these crazy dens seemed to have been selected as the nightly haunts of some houseless wretches , for many of the rough boards which supplied the place of door and window , were wrenched from their positions , to afford an aperture wide enough for the passage of a human body .
The kennel was stagnant and filthy .
The very rats , which here and there lay putrefying in its rottenness , were hideous with famine .
There was neither knocker nor bell-handle at the open door where and his master stopped ; so , groping his way cautiously through the dark passage , and bidding Oliver keep close to him and not be afraid the undertaker mounted to the top of the first flight of stairs .
Stumbling against a door on the landing , he rapped at it with his knuckles .
It was opened by a young girl of thirteen or fourteen .
The undertaker at once saw enough of what the room contained , to know it was the apartment to which he had been directed .
He stepped in ; followed him .
There was no fire in the room ; but a man was crouching , mechanically , over the empty stove .
An old woman , too , had drawn a low stool to the cold hearth , and was sitting beside him .
There were some ragged children in another corner ; and in a small recess , opposite the door , there lay upon the ground , something covered with an old blanket .
Oliver shuddered as he cast his eyes toward the place , and crept involuntarily closer to his master ; for though it was covered up , the boy felt that it was a corpse .
The man 's face was thin and very pale ; his hair and beard were grizzly ; his eyes were bloodshot .
The old woman 's face was wrinkled ; her two remaining teeth protruded over her under lip ; and her eyes were bright and piercing .
was afraid to look at either her or the man .
They seemed so like the rats he had seen outside .
'Nobody shall go near her , ' said the man , starting fiercely up , as the undertaker approached the recess .
Damn you , keep back , if you 've a life to lose ! '
'Nonsense , my good man , ' said the undertaker , who was pretty well used to misery in all its shapes .
' I tell you , ' said the man : clenching his hands , and stamping furiously on the floor , -- ' I tell you I wo n't have her put into the ground .
The worms would worry her -- not eat her -- she is so worn away . '
The undertaker offered no reply to this raving ; but producing a tape from his pocket , knelt down for a moment by the side of the body .
said the man : bursting into tears , and sinking on his knees at the feet of the dead woman ; 'kneel down , kneel down -- kneel round her , every one of you , and mark my words !
I say she was starved to death .
I never knew how bad she was , till the fever came upon her ; and then her bones were starting through the skin .
There was neither fire nor candle ; she died in the dark -- in the dark !
She could n't even see her children 's faces , though we heard her gasping out their names .
I begged for her in the streets : and they sent me to prison .
When I came back , she was dying ; and all the blood in my heart has dried up , for they starved her to death .
I swear it before the God that saw it !
He twined his hands in his hair ; and , with a loud scream , rolled grovelling upon the floor : his eyes fixed , and the foam covering his lips .
The terrified children cried bitterly ; but the old woman , who had hitherto remained as quiet as if she had been wholly deaf to all that passed , menaced them into silence .
Having unloosened the cravat of the man who still remained extended on the ground , she tottered towards the undertaker .
'She was my daughter , ' said the old woman , nodding her head in the direction of the corpse ; and speaking with an idiotic leer , more ghastly than even the presence of death in such a place .
Well , it _is_ strange that I who gave birth to her , and was a woman then , should be alive and merry now , and she lying there : so cold and stiff !
, ! -- to think of it ; it 's as good as a play -- as good as a play ! '
As the wretched creature mumbled and chuckled in her hideous merriment , the undertaker turned to go away .
said the old woman in a loud whisper .
'Will she be buried to-morrow , or next day , or to-night ?
I laid her out ; and I must walk , you know .
Send me a large cloak : a good warm one : for it is bitter cold .
We should have cake and wine , too , before we go !
Never mind ; send some bread -- only a loaf of bread and a cup of water .
Shall we have some bread , dear ? '
she said eagerly : catching at the undertaker 's coat , as he once more moved towards the door .
'Yes , yes , ' said the undertaker , 'of course .
He disengaged himself from the old woman 's grasp ; and , drawing after him , hurried away .
The next day , ( the family having been meanwhile relieved with a half-quartern loaf and a piece of cheese , left with them by himself , ) and his master returned to the miserable abode ; where had already arrived , accompanied by four men from the workhouse , who were to act as bearers .
An old black cloak had been thrown over the rags of the old woman and the man ; and the bare coffin having been screwed down , was hoisted on the shoulders of the bearers , and carried into the street .
'Now , you must put your best leg foremost , old lady ! '
whispered in the old woman 's ear ; 'we are rather late ; and it wo n't do , to keep the clergyman waiting .
on , my men , -- as quick as you like ! '
Thus directed , the bearers trotted on under their light burden ; and the two mourners kept as near them , as they could .
and walked at a good smart pace in front ; and , whose legs were not so long as his master 's , ran by the side .
There was not so great a necessity for hurrying as had anticipated , however ; for when they reached the obscure corner of the churchyard in which the nettles grew , and where the parish graves were made , the clergyman had not arrived ; and the clerk , who was sitting by the vestry-room fire , seemed to think it by no means improbable that it might be an hour or so , before he came .
So , they put the bier on the brink of the grave ; and the two mourners waited patiently in the damp clay , with a cold rain drizzling down , while the ragged boys whom the spectacle had attracted into the churchyard played a noisy game at hide-and-seek among the tombstones , or varied their amusements by jumping backwards and forwards over the coffin .
and , being personal friends of the clerk , sat by the fire with him , and read the paper .
At length , after a lapse of something more than an hour , , and , and the clerk , were seen running towards the grave .
Immediately afterwards , the clergyman appeared : putting on his surplice as he came along .
then thrashed a boy or two , to keep up appearances ; and the reverend gentleman , having read as much of the burial service as could be compressed into four minutes , gave his surplice to the clerk , and walked away again .
said to the grave-digger .
It was no very difficult task , for the grave was so full , that the uppermost coffin was within a few feet of the surface .
The grave-digger shovelled in the earth ; stamped it loosely down with his feet : shouldered his spade ; and walked off , followed by the boys , who murmured very loud complaints at the fun being over so soon .
said , tapping the man on the back .
'They want to shut up the yard . '
The man who had never once moved , since he had taken his station by the grave side , started , raised his head , stared at the person who had addressed him , walked forward for a few paces ; and fell down in a swoon .
The crazy old woman was too much occupied in bewailing the loss of her cloak ( which the undertaker had taken off ) , to pay him any attention ; so they threw a can of cold water over him ; and when he came to , saw him safely out of the churchyard , locked the gate , and departed on their different ways .
'Well , , ' said , as they walked home , 'how do you like it ? '
'Pretty well , thank you , sir ' replied Oliver , with considerable hesitation .
'Ah , you 'll get used to it in time , , ' said .
'Nothing when you _are_ used to it , my boy . '
Oliver wondered , in his own mind , whether it had taken a very long time to get used to it .
But he thought it better not to ask the question ; and walked back to the shop : thinking over all he had seen and heard .
The month 's trial over , was formally apprenticed .
It was a nice sickly season just at this time .
In commercial phrase , coffins were looking up ; and , in the course of a few weeks , acquired a great deal of experience .
The success of 's ingenious speculation , exceeded even his most sanguine hopes .
The oldest inhabitants recollected no period at which measles had been so prevalent , or so fatal to infant existence ; and many were the mournful processions which little headed , in a hat-band reaching down to his knees , to the indescribable admiration and emotion of all the mothers in the town .
As accompanied his master in most of his adult expeditions too , in order that he might acquire that equanimity of demeanour and full command of nerve which was essential to a finished undertaker , he had many opportunities of observing the beautiful resignation and fortitude with which some strong-minded people bear their trials and losses .
For instance ; when had an order for the burial of some rich old lady or gentleman , who was surrounded by a great number of nephews and nieces , who had been perfectly inconsolable during the previous illness , and whose grief had been wholly irrepressible even on the most public occasions , they would be as happy among themselves as need be -- quite cheerful and contented -- conversing together with as much freedom and gaiety , as if nothing whatever had happened to disturb them .
, too , bore the loss of their wives with the most heroic calmness .
Wives , again , put on weeds for their husbands , as if , so far from grieving in the garb of sorrow , they had made up their minds to render it as becoming and attractive as possible .
It was observable , too , that ladies and gentlemen who were in passions of anguish during the ceremony of interment , recovered almost as soon as they reached home , and became quite composed before the tea-drinking was over .
All this was very pleasant and improving to see ; and beheld it with great admiration .
That was moved to resignation by the example of these good people , I can not , although I am his biographer , undertake to affirm with any degree of confidence ; but I can most distinctly say , that for many months he continued meekly to submit to the domination and ill-treatment of : who used him far worse than before , now that his jealousy was roused by seeing the new boy promoted to the black stick and hatband , while he , the old one , remained stationary in the muffin-cap and leathers .
treated him ill , because did ; and Mrs. was his decided enemy , because was disposed to be his friend ; so , between these three on one side , and a glut of funerals on the other , was not altogether as comfortable as the hungry pig was , when he was shut up , by mistake , in the grain department of a brewery .
And now , I come to a very important passage in 's history ; for I have to record an act , slight and unimportant perhaps in appearance , but which indirectly produced a material change in all his future prospects and proceedings .
One day , and had descended into the kitchen at the usual dinner-hour , to banquet upon a small joint of mutton -- a pound and a half of the worst end of the neck -- when being called out of the way , there ensued a brief interval of time , which , being hungry and vicious , considered he could not possibly devote to a worthier purpose than aggravating and tantalising young .
Intent upon this innocent amusement , put his feet on the table-cloth ; and pulled 's hair ; and twitched his ears ; and expressed his opinion that he was a 'sneak ' ; and furthermore announced his intention of coming to see him hanged , whenever that desirable event should take place ; and entered upon various topics of petty annoyance , like a malicious and ill-conditioned charity-boy as he was .
But , making cry , attempted to be more facetious still ; and in his attempt , did what many sometimes do to this day , when they want to be funny .
'Work'us , ' said , 'how 's your mother ? '
'She 's dead , ' replied ; 'do n't you say anything about her to me ! '
's colour rose as he said this ; he breathed quickly ; and there was a curious working of the mouth and nostrils , which thought must be the immediate precursor of a violent fit of crying .
Under this impression he returned to the charge .
'What did she die of , Work'us ? '
'Of a broken heart , some of our old nurses told me , ' replied : more as if he were talking to himself , than answering .
' I think I know what it must be to die of that ! '
'Tol de rol lol lol , right fol lairy , Work'us , ' said , as a tear rolled down 's cheek .
'What 's set you a snivelling now ? '
'Not _you_ , ' replied , sharply .
Do n't say anything more to me about her ; you 'd better not ! '
She was a nice 'un she was .
And here , nodded his head expressively ; and curled up as much of his small red nose as muscular action could collect together , for the occasion .
'Yer know , Work'us , ' continued , emboldened by 's silence , and speaking in a jeering tone of affected pity : of all tones the most annoying : 'Yer know , Work'us , it ca n't be helped now ; and of course yer could n't help it then ; and I am very sorry for it ; and I 'm sure we all are , and pity yer very much .
But yer must know , Work'us , yer mother was a regular right-down bad 'un . '
inquired , looking up very quickly .
' A regular right-down bad 'un , Work'us , ' replied , coolly .
'And it 's a great deal better , Work'us , that she died when she did , or else she 'd have been hard labouring in , or transported , or hung ; which is more likely than either , is n't it ? '
with fury , started up ; overthrew the chair and table ; seized by the throat ; shook him , in the violence of his rage , till his teeth chattered in his head ; and collecting his whole force into one heavy blow , felled him to the ground .
A minute ago , the boy had looked the quiet child , mild , dejected creature that harsh treatment had made him .
But his spirit was roused at last ; the cruel insult to his dead mother had set his blood on fire .
His breast heaved ; his attitude was erect ; his eye bright and vivid ; his whole person changed , as he stood glaring over the cowardly tormentor who now lay crouching at his feet ; and defied him with an energy he had never known before .
Here 's the new boy a murdering of me !
's shouts were responded to , by a loud scream from , and a louder from Mrs. ; the former of whom rushed into the kitchen by a side-door , while the latter paused on the staircase till she was quite certain that it was consistent with the preservation of human life , to come further down .
screamed : seizing Oliver with her utmost force , which was about equal to that of a moderately strong man in particularly good training .
'Oh , you little un-grate-ful , mur-de-rous , hor-rid villain ! '
And between every syllable , gave a blow with all her might : accompanying it with a scream , for the benefit of society .
's fist was by no means a light one ; but , lest it should not be effectual in calming 's wrath , Mrs. plunged into the kitchen , and assisted to hold him with one hand , while she scratched his face with the other .
In this favourable position of affairs , rose from the ground , and pommelled him behind .
This was rather too violent exercise to last long .
When they were all wearied out , and could tear and beat no longer , they dragged , struggling and shouting , but nothing daunted , into the dust-cellar , and there locked him up .
This being done , Mrs. sunk into a chair , and burst into tears .
'Bless her , she 's going off ! '
' A glass of water , , dear .
, ' said Mrs. Sowerberry : speaking as well as she could , through a deficiency of breath , and a sufficiency of cold water , which had poured over her head and shoulders .
, what a mercy we have not all been murdered in our beds ! '
mercy indeed , ma'am , ' was the reply .
I only hope this 'll teach master not to have any more of these dreadful creatures , that are born to be murderers and robbers from their very cradle .
He was all but killed , ma'am , when I come in . '
said Mrs. Sowerberry : looking piteously on the charity-boy .
, whose top waistcoat-button might have been somewhere on a level with the crown of 's head , rubbed his eyes with the inside of his wrists while this commiseration was bestowed upon him , and performed some affecting tears and sniffs .
'Your master 's not at home ; there 's not a man in the house , and he 'll kick that door down in ten minutes . '
's vigorous plunges against the bit of timber in question , rendered this occurance highly probable .
I do n't know , ma'am , ' said , 'unless we send for the police-officers . '
'Or the millingtary , ' suggested .
'No , no , ' said Mrs. Sowerberry : bethinking herself of 's old friend .
'Run to , , and tell him to come here directly , and not to lose a minute ; never mind your cap !
You can hold a knife to that black eye , as you run along .
It 'll keep the swelling down . '
stopped to make no reply , but started off at his fullest speed ; and very much it astonished the people who were out walking , to see a charity-boy tearing through the streets pell-mell , with no cap on his head , and a clasp-knife at his eye .
ran along the streets at his swiftest pace , and paused not once for breath , until he reached the workhouse-gate .
Having rested here , for a minute or so , to collect a good burst of sobs and an imposing show of tears and terror , he knocked loudly at the wicket ; and presented such a rueful face to the aged pauper who opened it , that even he , who saw nothing but rueful faces about him at the best of times , started back in astonishment .
'Why , what 's the matter with the boy ! '
cried , with well-affected dismay : and in tones so loud and agitated , that they not only caught the ear of himself , who happened to be hard by , but alarmed him so much that he rushed into the yard without his cocked hat , -- which is a very curious and remarkable circumstance : as showing that even a beadle , acted upon a sudden and powerful impulse , may be afflicted with a momentary visitation of loss of self-possession , and forgetfulness of personal dignity .
said : 'Oliver , sir , -- has -- ' 'What ?
interposed : with a gleam of pleasure in his metallic eyes .
'Not run away ; he has n't run away , has he , ? '
Not run away , sir , but he 's turned wicious , ' replied .
'He tried to murder me , sir ; and then he tried to murder ; and then missis .
what dreadful pain it is !
And here , writhed and twisted his body into an extensive variety of eel-like positions ; thereby giving to understand that , from the violent and sanguinary onset of , he had sustained severe internal injury and damage , from which he was at that moment suffering the acutest torture .
When saw that the intelligence he communicated perfectly paralysed , he imparted additional effect thereunto , by bewailing his dreadful wounds ten times louder than before ; and when he observed a gentleman in a white waistcoat crossing the yard , he was more tragic in his lamentations than ever : rightly conceiving it highly expedient to attract the notice , and rouse the indignation , of the gentleman aforesaid .
The gentleman 's notice was very soon attracted ; for he had not walked three paces , when he turned angrily round , and inquired what that young cur was howling for , and why did not favour him with something which would render the series of vocular exclamations so designated , an involuntary process ?
'It 's a poor boy from the free-school , sir , ' replied , 'who has been nearly murdered -- all but murdered , sir , -- by young Twist . '
exclaimed the gentleman in the white waistcoat , stopping short .
I felt a strange presentiment from the very first , that that audacious young savage would come to be hung ! '
'He has likewise attempted , sir , to murder the female servant , ' said , with a face of ashy paleness .
'And his missis , ' interposed .
'And his master , too , I think you said , ? '
he 's out , or he would have murdered him , ' replied .
'He said he wanted to . '
Said he wanted to , did he , my boy ? '
inquired the gentleman in the white waistcoat .
'And please , sir , missis wants to know whether can spare time to step up there , directly , and flog him -- 'cause master 's out . '
'Certainly , my boy ; certainly , ' said the gentleman in the white waistcoat : smiling benignly , and patting 's head , which was about three inches higher than his own .
'You 're a good boy -- a very good boy .
Here 's a penny for you .
, just step up to 's with your cane , and see what 's best to be done .
'No , I will not , sir , ' replied the beadle .
And the cocked hat and cane having been , by this time , adjusted to their owner 's satisfaction , and betook themselves with all speed to the undertaker 's shop .
Here the position of affairs had not at all improved .
had not yet returned , and continued to kick , with undiminished vigour , at the cellar-door .
The accounts of his ferocity as related by Mrs. and , were of so startling a nature , that judged it prudent to parley , before opening the door .
With this view he gave a kick at the outside , by way of prelude ; and , then , applying his mouth to the keyhole , said , in a deep and impressive tone : 'Oliver ! '
'Come ; you let me out ! '
replied , from the inside .
'Do you know this here voice , ? '
'Ai n't you afraid of it , sir ?
Ai n't you a-trembling while I speak , sir ? '
An answer so different from the one he had expected to elicit , and was in the habit of receiving , staggered not a little .
He stepped back from the keyhole ; drew himself up to his full height ; and looked from one to another of the three bystanders , in mute astonishment .
'Oh , you know , , he must be mad , ' said Mrs. Sowerberry .
'No boy in half his senses could venture to speak so to you . '
'It 's not , ma'am , ' replied , after a few moments of deep meditation .
'Meat , ma'am , meat , ' replied , with stern emphasis .
You 've raised a artificial soul and spirit in him , ma'am unbecoming a person of his condition : as the board , Mrs. , who are practical philosophers , will tell you .
What have paupers to do with soul or spirit ?
It 's quite enough that we let 'em have live bodies .
If you had kept the boy on gruel , ma'am , this would never have happened . '
ejaculated Mrs. , piously raising her eyes to the kitchen ceiling : 'this comes of being liberal ! '
The liberality of Mrs. Sowerberry to , had consisted of a profuse bestowal upon him of all the dirty odds and ends which nobody else would eat ; so there was a great deal of meekness and self-devotion in her voluntarily remaining under 's heavy accusation .
Of which , to do her justice , she was wholly innocent , in thought , word , or deed .
said , when the lady brought her eyes down to earth again ; 'the only thing that can be done now , that I know of , is to leave him in the cellar for a day or so , till he 's a little starved down ; and then to take him out , and keep him on gruel all through the apprenticeship .
He comes of a bad family .
Both the nurse and doctor said , that that mother of his made her way here , against difficulties and pain that would have killed any well-disposed woman , weeks before . '
At this point of 's discourse , , just hearing enough to know that some allusion was being made to his mother , recommenced kicking , with a violence that rendered every other sound inaudible .
returned at this juncture .
's offence having been explained to him , with such exaggerations as the ladies thought best calculated to rouse his ire , he unlocked the cellar-door in a twinkling , and dragged his rebellious apprentice out , by the collar .
's clothes had been torn in the beating he had received ; his face was bruised and scratched ; and his hair scattered over his forehead .
The angry flush had not disappeared , however ; and when he was pulled out of his prison , he scowled boldly on , and looked quite undismayed .
'Now , you are a nice young fellow , ai n't you ? '
said ; giving Oliver a shake , and a box on the ear .
'He called my mother names , ' replied .
'Well , and what if he did , you little ungrateful wretch ? '
'She deserved what he said , and worse . '
'She did , ' said Mrs. Sowerberry .
Mrs. burst into a flood of tears .
This flood of tears left no alternative .
If he had hesitated for one instant to punish most severely , it must be quite clear to every experienced reader that he would have been , according to all precedents in disputes of matrimony established , a brute , an unnatural husband , an insulting creature , a base imitation of a man , and various other agreeable characters too numerous for recital within the limits of this chapter .
To do him justice , he was , as far as his power went -- it was not very extensive -- kindly disposed towards the boy ; perhaps , because it was his interest to be so ; perhaps , because his wife disliked him .
The flood of tears , however , left him no resource ; so he at once gave him a drubbing , which satisfied even Mrs. Sowerberry herself , and rendered 's subsequent application of the parochial cane , rather unnecessary .
For the rest of the day , he was shut up in the back kitchen , in company with a pump and a slice of bread ; and at night , Mrs. , after making various remarks outside the door , by no means complimentary to the memory of his mother , looked into the room , and , amidst the jeers and pointings of and , ordered him upstairs to his dismal bed .
It was not until he was left alone in the silence and stillness of the gloomy workshop of the undertaker , that gave way to the feelings which the day 's treatment may be supposed likely to have awakened in a mere child .
He had listened to their taunts with a look of contempt ; he had borne the lash without a cry : for he felt that pride swelling in his heart which would have kept down a shriek to the last , though they had roasted him alive .
But now , when there were none to see or hear him , he fell upon his knees on the floor ; and , hiding his face in his hands , wept such tears as , send for the credit of our nature , few so young may ever have cause to pour out before him !
For a long time , remained motionless in this attitude .
The candle was burning low in the socket when he rose to his feet .
Having gazed cautiously round him , and listened intently , he gently undid the fastenings of the door , and looked abroad .
It was a cold , dark night .
The stars seemed , to the boy 's eyes , farther from the earth than he had ever seen them before ; there was no wind ; and the sombre shadows thrown by the trees upon the ground , looked sepulchral and death-like , from being so still .
He softly reclosed the door .
Having availed himself of the expiring light of the candle to tie up in a handkerchief the few articles of wearing apparel he had , sat himself down upon a bench , to wait for morning .
With the first ray of light that struggled through the crevices in the shutters , arose , and again unbarred the door .
One timid look around -- one moment 's pause of hesitation -- he had closed it behind him , and was in the open street .
He looked to the right and to the left , uncertain whither to fly .
He remembered to have seen the waggons , as they went out , toiling up the hill .
He took the same route ; and arriving at a footpath across the fields : which he knew , after some distance , led out again into the road ; struck into it , and walked quickly on .
Along this same footpath , well-remembered he had trotted beside , when he first carried him to the workhouse from the farm .
His way lay directly in front of the cottage .
His heart beat quickly when he bethought himself of this ; and he half resolved to turn back .
He had come a long way though , and should lose a great deal of time by doing so .
Besides , it was so early that there was very little fear of his being seen ; so he walked on .
There was no appearance of its inmates stirring at that early hour .
stopped , and peeped into the garden .
A child was weeding one of the little beds ; as he stopped , he raised his pale face and disclosed the features of one of his former companions .
felt glad to see him , before he went ; for , though younger than himself , he had been his little friend and playmate .
They had been beaten , and starved , and shut up together , many and many a time .
said , as the boy ran to the gate , and thrust his thin arm between the rails to greet him .
'Nobody but me , ' replied the child .
'You mus n't say you saw me , , ' said .
They beat and ill-use me , ; and I am going to seek my fortune , some long way off .
' I heard the doctor tell them I was dying , ' replied the child with a faint smile .
' I am very glad to see you , dear ; but do n't stop , do n't stop ! '
'Yes , yes , I will , to say good-b'ye to you , ' replied .
' I shall see you again , .
You will be well and happy ! '
' I hope so , ' replied the child .
'After I am dead , but not before .
I know the doctor must be right , Oliver , because I dream so much of , and , and kind faces that I never see when I am awake .
Kiss me , ' said the child , climbing up the low gate , and flinging his little arms round 's neck .
The blessing was from a young child 's lips , but it was the first that had ever heard invoked upon his head ; and through the struggles and sufferings , and troubles and changes , of his after life , he never once forgot it .
Oliver reached the stile at which the by-path terminated ; and once more gained the high-road .
It was eight o'clock now .
Though he was nearly five miles away from the town , he ran , and hid behind the hedges , by turns , till noon : fearing that he might be pursued and overtaken .
Then he sat down to rest by the side of the milestone , and began to think , for the first time , where he had better go and try to live .
The stone by which he was seated , bore , in large characters , an intimation that it was just seventy miles from that spot to .
The name awakened a new train of ideas in the boy 's mind .
! -- that great place ! -- nobody -- not even -- could ever find him there !
He had often heard the old men in the workhouse , too , say that no lad of spirit need want in ; and that there were ways of living in that vast city , which those who had been bred up in country parts had no idea of .
It was the very place for a homeless boy , who must die in the streets unless some one helped him .
As these things passed through his thoughts , he jumped upon his feet , and again walked forward .
He had diminished the distance between himself and by full four miles more , before he recollected how much he must undergo ere he could hope to reach his place of destination .
As this consideration forced itself upon him , he slackened his pace a little , and meditated upon his means of getting there .
He had a crust of bread , a coarse shirt , and two pairs of stockings , in his bundle .
He had a penny too -- a gift of 's after some funeral in which he had acquitted himself more than ordinarily well -- in his pocket .
' A clean shirt , ' thought , 'is a very comfortable thing ; and so are two pairs of darned stockings ; and so is a penny ; but they are small helps to a sixty-five miles ' walk in winter time . '
But 's thoughts , like those of most other people , although they were extremely ready and active to point out his difficulties , were wholly at a loss to suggest any feasible mode of surmounting them ; so , after a good deal of thinking to no particular purpose , he changed his little bundle over to the other shoulder , and trudged on .
Oliver walked twenty miles that day ; and all that time tasted nothing but the crust of dry bread , and a few draughts of water , which he begged at the cottage-doors by the road-side .
When the night came , he turned into a meadow ; and , creeping close under a hay-rick , determined to lie there , till morning .
He felt frightened at first , for the wind moaned dismally over the empty fields : and he was cold and hungry , and more alone than he had ever felt before .
Being very tired with his walk , however , he soon fell asleep and forgot his troubles .
He felt cold and stiff , when he got up next morning , and so hungry that he was obliged to exchange the penny for a small loaf , in the very first village through which he passed .
He had walked no more than twelve miles , when night closed in again .
His feet were sore , and his legs so weak that they trembled beneath him .
Another night passed in the bleak damp air , made him worse ; when he set forward on his journey next morning he could hardly crawl along .
He waited at the bottom of a steep hill till a stage-coach came up , and then begged of the outside passengers ; but there were very few who took any notice of him : and even those told him to wait till they got to the top of the hill , and then let them see how far he could run for a halfpenny .
tried to keep up with the coach a little way , but was unable to do it , by reason of his fatigue and sore feet .
When the outsides saw this , they put their halfpence back into their pockets again , declaring that he was an idle young dog , and did n't deserve anything ; and the coach rattled away and left only a cloud of dust behind .
In some villages , large painted boards were fixed up : warning all persons who begged within the district , that they would be sent to jail .
This frightened very much , and made him glad to get out of those villages with all possible expedition .
In others , he would stand about the inn-yards , and look mournfully at every one who passed : a proceeding which generally terminated in the landlady 's ordering one of the post-boys who were lounging about , to drive that strange boy out of the place , for she was sure he had come to steal something .
If he begged at a farmer 's house , ten to one but they threatened to set the dog on him ; and when he showed his nose in a shop , they talked about the beadle -- which brought 's heart into his mouth , -- very often the only thing he had there , for many hours together .
In fact , if it had not been for a good-hearted turnpike-man , and a benevolent old lady , 's troubles would have been shortened by the very same process which had put an end to his mother 's ; in other words , he would most assuredly have fallen dead upon the king 's highway .
But the turnpike-man gave him a meal of bread and cheese ; and the old lady , who had a shipwrecked grandson wandering barefoot in some distant part of the earth , took pity upon the poor orphan , and gave him what little she could afford -- and more -- with such kind and gentle words , and such tears of sympathy and compassion , that they sank deeper into 's soul , than all the sufferings he had ever undergone .
Early on the seventh morning after he had left his native place , limped slowly into the little town of .
The window-shutters were closed ; the street was empty ; not a soul had awakened to the business of the day .
The sun was rising in all its splendid beauty ; but the light only served to show the boy his own lonesomeness and desolation , as he sat , with bleeding feet and covered with dust , upon a door-step .
By degrees , the shutters were opened ; the window-blinds were drawn up ; and people began passing to and fro .
Some few stopped to gaze at for a moment or two , or turned round to stare at him as they hurried by ; but none relieved him , or troubled themselves to inquire how he came there .
He had no heart to beg .
He had been crouching on the step for some time : wondering at the great number of public-houses ( every other house in was a tavern , large or small ) , gazing listlessly at the coaches as they passed through , and thinking how strange it seemed that they could do , with ease , in a few hours , what it had taken him a whole week of courage and determination beyond his years to accomplish : when he was roused by observing that a boy , who had passed him carelessly some minutes before , had returned , and was now surveying him most earnestly from the opposite side of the way .
He took little heed of this at first ; but the boy remained in the same attitude of close observation so long , that raised his head , and returned his steady look .
Upon this , the boy crossed over ; and walking close up to , said , 'Hullo , my covey !
The boy who addressed this inquiry to the young wayfarer , was about his own age : but one of the queerest looking boys that had even seen .
He was a snub-nosed , flat-browed , common-faced boy enough ; and as dirty a juvenile as one would wish to see ; but he had about him all the airs and manners of a man .
He was short of his age : with rather bow-legs , and little , sharp , ugly eyes .
His hat was stuck on the top of his head so lightly , that it threatened to fall off every moment -- and would have done so , very often , if the wearer had not had a knack of every now and then giving his head a sudden twitch , which brought it back to its old place again .
He wore a man 's coat , which reached nearly to his heels .
He had turned the cuffs back , half-way up his arm , to get his hands out of the sleeves : apparently with the ultimate view of thrusting them into the pockets of his corduroy trousers ; for there he kept them .
He was , altogether , as roystering and swaggering a young gentleman as ever stood four feet six , or something less , in the bluchers .
said this strange young gentleman to .
' I am very hungry and tired , ' replied : the tears standing in his eyes as he spoke .
' I have walked a long way .
I have been walking these seven days . '
But , ' he added , noticing 's look of surprise , ' I suppose you do n't know what a beak is , my flash com-pan-i-on . '
Oliver mildly replied , that he had always heard a bird 's mouth described by the term in question .
'Why , a beak 's a madgst'rate ; and when you walk by a beak 's order , it 's not straight forerd , but always agoing up , and niver a coming down agin .
Was you never on the mill ? '
Why , _the_ mill -- the mill as takes up so little room that it 'll work inside a Stone Jug ; and always goes better when the wind 's low with people , than when it 's high ; acos then they ca n't get workmen .
But come , ' said the young gentleman ; 'you want grub , and you shall have it .
I 'm at low-water-mark myself -- only one bob and a magpie ; but , as far as it goes , I 'll fork out and stump .
Up with you on your pins .
Assisting to rise , the young gentleman took him to an adjacent chandler 's shop , where he purchased a sufficiency of ready-dressed ham and a half-quartern loaf , or , as he himself expressed it , ' a fourpenny bran ! '
the ham being kept clean and preserved from dust , by the ingenious expedient of making a hole in the loaf by pulling out a portion of the crumb , and stuffing it therein .
Taking the bread under his arm , the young gentlman turned into a small public-house , and led the way to a tap-room in the rear of the premises .
Here , a pot of beer was brought in , by direction of the mysterious youth ; and , falling to , at his new friend 's bidding , made a long and hearty meal , during the progress of which the strange boy eyed him from time to time with great attention .
said the strange boy , when had at length concluded .
The strange boy whistled ; and put his arms into his pockets , as far as the big coat-sleeves would let them go .
'Do you live in ? '
I do , when I 'm at home , ' replied the boy .
' I suppose you want some place to sleep in to-night , do n't you ? '
' I do , indeed , ' answered .
' I have not slept under a roof since I left the country . '
'Do n't fret your eyelids on that score , ' said the young gentleman .
' I 've got to be in to-night ; and I know a 'spectable old gentleman as lives there , wot 'll give you lodgings for nothink , and never ask for the change -- that is , if any genelman he knows interduces you .
And do n't he know me ?
The young gentleman smiled , as if to intimate that the latter fragments of discourse were playfully ironical ; and finished the beer as he did so .
This unexpected offer of shelter was too tempting to be resisted ; especially as it was immediately followed up , by the assurance that the old gentleman referred to , would doubtless provide with a comfortable place , without loss of time .
This led to a more friendly and confidential dialogue ; from which discovered that his friend 's name was , and that he was a peculiar pet and protege of the elderly gentleman before mentioned .
's appearance did not say a vast deal in favour of the comforts which his patron 's interest obtained for those whom he took under his protection ; but , as he had a rather flightly and dissolute mode of conversing , and furthermore avowed that among his intimate friends he was better known by the sobriquet of 'The , ' concluded that , being of a dissipated and careless turn , the moral precepts of his benefactor had hitherto been thrown away upon him .
Under this impression , he secretly resolved to cultivate the good opinion of the old gentleman as quickly as possible ; and , if he found the incorrigible , as he more than half suspected he should , to decline the honour of his farther acquaintance .
As objected to their entering before nightfall , it was nearly eleven o'clock when they reached the turnpike at .
They crossed from the into 's ; struck down the small street which terminates at 's ; through and ; down the little court by the side of the workhouse ; across the classic ground which once bore the name of ; thence into ; and so into the : along which the scudded at a rapid pace , directing to follow close at his heels .
Although had enough to occupy his attention in keeping sight of his leader , he could not help bestowing a few hasty glances on either side of the way , as he passed along .
A dirtier or more wretched place he had never seen .
The street was very narrow and muddy , and the air was impregnated with filthy odours .
There were a good many small shops ; but the only stock in trade appeared to be heaps of children , who , even at that time of night , were crawling in and out at the doors , or screaming from the inside .
The sole places that seemed to prosper amid the general blight of the place , were the public-houses ; and in them , the lowest orders of were wrangling with might and main .
ways and yards , which here and there diverged from the main street , disclosed little knots of houses , where drunken men and women were positively wallowing in filth ; and from several of the door-ways , great ill-looking fellows were cautiously emerging , bound , to all appearance , on no very well-disposed or harmless errands .
was just considering whether he had n't better run away , when they reached the bottom of the hill .
His conductor , catching him by the arm , pushed open the door of a house near ; and drawing him into the passage , closed it behind them .
cried a voice from below , in reply to a whistle from the Dodger .
This seemed to be some watchword or signal that all was right ; for the light of a feeble candle gleamed on the wall at the remote end of the passage ; and a man 's face peeped out , from where a balustrade of the old kitchen staircase had been broken away .
'There 's two on you , ' said the man , thrusting the candle farther out , and shielding his eyes with his hand .
' A new pal , ' replied , pulling forward .
'Where did he come from ? '
'Yes , he 's a sortin ' the wipes .
The candle was drawn back , and the face disappeared .
, groping his way with one hand , and having the other firmly grasped by his companion , ascended with much difficulty the dark and broken stairs : which his conductor mounted with an ease and expedition that showed he was well acquainted with them .
He threw open the door of a back-room , and drew in after him .
The walls and ceiling of the room were perfectly black with age and dirt .
There was a deal table before the fire : upon which were a candle , stuck in a ginger-beer bottle , two or three pewter pots , a loaf and butter , and a plate .
In a frying-pan , which was on the fire , and which was secured to the mantelshelf by a string , some sausages were cooking ; and standing over them , with a toasting-fork in his hand , was a very old shrivelled , whose villainous-looking and repulsive face was obscured by a quantity of matted red hair .
He was dressed in a greasy flannel gown , with his throat bare ; and seemed to be dividing his attention between the frying-pan and the clothes-horse , over which a great number of silk handkerchiefs were hanging .
Several rough beds made of old sacks , were huddled side by side on the floor .
Seated round the table were four or five boys , none older than the , smoking long clay pipes , and drinking spirits with the air of middle-aged men .
These all crowded about their associate as he whispered a few words to the ; and then turned round and grinned at .
So did the Jew himself , toasting-fork in hand .
'This is him , , ' said ; 'my friend . '
The Jew grinned ; and , making a low obeisance to , took him by the hand , and hoped he should have the honour of his intimate acquaintance .
Upon this , the young gentleman with the pipes came round him , and shook both his hands very hard -- especially the one in which he held his little bundle .
One young gentleman was very anxious to hang up his cap for him ; and another was so obliging as to put his hands in his pockets , in order that , as he was very tired , he might not have the trouble of emptying them , himself , when he went to bed .
These civilities would probably be extended much farther , but for a liberal exercise of the 's toasting-fork on the heads and shoulders of the affectionate youths who offered them .
'We are very glad to see you , , very , ' said the Jew .
'Dodger , take off the sausages ; and draw a tub near the fire for .
, you 're a-staring at the pocket-handkerchiefs !
There are a good many of 'em , ai n't there ?
We 've just looked 'em out , ready for the wash ; that 's all , ; that 's all .
The latter part of this speech , was hailed by a boisterous shout from all the hopeful pupils of the merry old gentleman .
In the midst of which they went to supper .
Oliver ate his share , and the Jew then mixed him a glass of hot gin-and-water : telling him he must drink it off directly , because another gentleman wanted the tumbler .
Oliver did as he was desired .
Immediately afterwards he felt himself gently lifted on to one of the sacks ; and then he sunk into a deep sleep .
It was late next morning when awoke , from a sound , long sleep .
There was no other person in the room but the old Jew , who was boiling some coffee in a saucepan for breakfast , and whistling softly to himself as he stirred it round and round , with an iron spoon .
He would stop every now and then to listen when there was the least noise below : and when he had satisfied himself , he would go on whistling and stirring again , as before .
Although had roused himself from sleep , he was not thoroughly awake .
There is a drowsy state , between sleeping and waking , when you dream more in five minutes with your eyes half open , and yourself half conscious of everything that is passing around you , than you would in five nights with your eyes fast closed , and your senses wrapt in perfect unconsciousness .
At such time , a mortal knows just enough of what his mind is doing , to form some glimmering conception of its mighty powers , its bounding from earth and spurning time and space , when freed from the restraint of its corporeal associate .
was precisely in this condition .
He saw the Jew with his half-closed eyes ; heard his low whistling ; and recognised the sound of the spoon grating against the saucepan 's sides : and yet the self-same senses were mentally engaged , at the same time , in busy action with almost everybody he had ever known .
When the coffee was done , the drew the saucepan to the hob .
Standing , then in an irresolute attitude for a few minutes , as if he did not well know how to employ himself , he turned round and looked at , and called him by his name .
He did not answer , and was to all appearances asleep .
After satisfying himself upon this head , the stepped gently to the door : which he fastened .
He then drew forth : as it seemed to , from some trap in the floor : a small box , which he placed carefully on the table .
His eyes glistened as he raised the lid , and looked in .
Dragging an old chair to the table , he sat down ; and took from it a magnificent gold watch , sparkling with jewels .
said the Jew , shrugging up his shoulders , and distorting every feature with a hideous grin .
Never told the old parson where they were .
Never poached upon old Fagin !
It would n't have loosened the knot , or kept the drop up , a minute longer .
With these , and other muttered reflections of the like nature , the Jew once more deposited the watch in its place of safety .
At least half a dozen more were severally drawn forth from the same box , and surveyed with equal pleasure ; besides rings , brooches , bracelets , and other articles of jewellery , of such magnificent materials , and costly workmanship , that had no idea , even of their names .
Having replaced these trinkets , the took out another : so small that it lay in the palm of his hand .
There seemed to be some very minute inscription on it ; for the Jew laid it flat upon the table , and shading it with his hand , pored over it , long and earnestly .
At length he put it down , as if despairing of success ; and , leaning back in his chair , muttered : 'What a fine thing capital punishment is !
Dead men never repent ; dead men never bring awkward stories to light .
, it 's a fine thing for the trade !
Five of 'em strung up in a row , and none left to play booty , or turn white-livered ! '
As the Jew uttered these words , his bright dark eyes , which had been staring vacantly before him , fell on 's face ; the boy 's eyes were fixed on his in mute curiousity ; and although the recognition was only for an instant -- for the briefest space of time that can possibly be conceived -- it was enough to show the old man that he had been observed .
He closed the lid of the box with a loud crash ; and , laying his hand on a bread knife which was on the table , started furiously up .
He trembled very much though ; for , even in his terror , could see that the knife quivered in the air .
'What do you watch me for ?
' I was n't able to sleep any longer , sir , ' replied , meekly .
' I am very sorry if I have disturbed you , sir . '
'You were not awake an hour ago ? '
said the Jew , scowling fiercely on the boy .
cried the Jew : with a still fiercer look than before : and a threatening attitude .
'Upon my word I was not , sir , ' replied , earnestly .
' I was not , indeed , sir . '
said the Jew , abruptly resuming his old manner , and playing with the knife a little , before he laid it down ; as if to induce the belief that he had caught it up , in mere sport .
'Of course I know that , my dear .
I only tried to frighten you .
you 're a brave boy , . '
The Jew rubbed his hands with a chuckle , but glanced uneasily at the box , notwithstanding .
'Did you see any of these pretty things , my dear ? '
said the Jew , laying his hand upon it after a short pause .
said the Jew , turning rather pale .
'They -- they 're mine , ; my little property .
All I have to live upon , in my old age .
The folks call me a miser , my dear .
Only a miser ; that 's all . '
Oliver thought the old gentleman must be a decided miser to live in such a dirty place , with so many watches ; but , thinking that perhaps his fondness for the and the other boys , cost him a good deal of money , he only cast a deferential look at the Jew , and asked if he might get up .
'Certainly , my dear , certainly , ' replied the old gentleman .
There 's a pitcher of water in the corner by the door .
Bring it here ; and I 'll give you a basin to wash in , my dear . '
got up ; walked across the room ; and stooped for an instant to raise the pitcher .
When he turned his head , the box was gone .
He had scarcely washed himself , and made everything tidy , by emptying the basin out of the window , agreeably to the 's directions , when the returned : accompanied by a very sprightly young friend , whom had seen smoking on the previous night , and who was now formally introduced to him as .
The four sat down , to breakfast , on the coffee , and some hot rolls and ham which the had brought home in the crown of his hat .
'Well , ' said the Jew , glancing slyly at , and addressing himself to the , ' I hope you 've been at work this morning , my dears ? '
'As nails , ' added .
'What have you got , ? '
' A couple of pocket-books , ' replied that young gentlman .
inquired the Jew , with eagerness .
'Pretty well , ' replied the , producing two pocket-books ; one green , and the other red .
'Not so heavy as they might be , ' said the Jew , after looking at the insides carefully ; 'but very neat and nicely made .
workman , ai n't he , Oliver ? '
'Very indeed , sir , ' said .
At which laughed uproariously ; very much to the amazement of , who saw nothing to laugh at , in anything that had passed .
'And what have you got , my dear ? '
said to .
'Wipes , ' replied ; at the same time producing four pocket-handkerchiefs .
'Well , ' said the Jew , inspecting them closely ; 'they 're very good ones , very .
You have n't marked them well , though , ; so the marks shall be picked out with a needle , and we 'll teach how to do it .
'If you please , sir , ' said .
'You 'd like to be able to make pocket-handkerchiefs as easy as , would n't you , my dear ? '
'Very much , indeed , if you 'll teach me , sir , ' replied .
saw something so exquisitely ludicrous in this reply , that he burst into another laugh ; which laugh , meeting the coffee he was drinking , and carrying it down some wrong channel , very nearly terminated in his premature suffocation .
'He is so jolly green ! '
said when he recovered , as an apology to the company for his unpolite behaviour .
The said nothing , but he smoothed 's hair over his eyes , and said he 'd know better , by and by ; upon which the old gentleman , observing 's colour mounting , changed the subject by asking whether there had been much of a crowd at the execution that morning ?
This made him wonder more and more ; for it was plain from the replies of the two boys that they had both been there ; and naturally wondered how they could possibly have found time to be so very industrious .
When the breakfast was cleared away ; the merry old gentlman and the two boys played at a very curious and uncommon game , which was performed in this way .
The merry old gentleman , placing a snuff-box in one pocket of his trousers , a note-case in the other , and a watch in his waistcoat pocket , with a guard-chain round his neck , and sticking a mock diamond pin in his shirt : buttoned his coat tight round him , and putting his spectacle-case and handkerchief in his pockets , trotted up and down the room with a stick , in imitation of the manner in which old gentlemen walk about the streets any hour in the day .
Sometimes he stopped at the fire-place , and sometimes at the door , making believe that he was staring with all his might into shop-windows .
At such times , he would look constantly round him , for fear of thieves , and would keep slapping all his pockets in turn , to see that he had n't lost anything , in such a very funny and natural manner , that laughed till the tears ran down his face .
All this time , the two boys followed him closely about : getting out of his sight , so nimbly , every time he turned round , that it was impossible to follow their motions .
At last , the trod upon his toes , or ran upon his boot accidently , while stumbled up against him behind ; and in that one moment they took from him , with the most extraordinary rapidity , snuff-box , note-case , watch-guard , chain , shirt-pin , pocket-handkerchief , even the spectacle-case .
If the old gentlman felt a hand in any one of his pockets , he cried out where it was ; and then the game began all over again .
When this game had been played a great many times , a couple of young ladies called to see the young gentleman ; one of whom was named , and the other Nancy .
They wore a good deal of hair , not very neatly turned up behind , and were rather untidy about the shoes and stockings .
They were not exactly pretty , perhaps ; but they had a great deal of colour in their faces , and looked quite stout and hearty .
Being remarkably free and agreeable in their manners , thought them very nice girls indeed .
As there is no doubt they were .
The visitors stopped a long time .
Spirits were produced , in consequence of one of the young ladies complaining of a coldness in her inside ; and the conversation took a very convivial and improving turn .
At length , expressed his opinion that it was time to pad the hoof .
This , it occurred to , must be for going out ; for directly afterwards , the , and , and the two young ladies , went away together , having been kindly furnished by the amiable old Jew with money to spend .
'There , my dear , ' said .
'That 's a pleasant life , is n't it ?
They have gone out for the day . '
'Have they done work , sir ? '
'Yes , ' said the ; 'that is , unless they should unexpectedly come across any , when they are out ; and they wo n't neglect it , if they do , my dear , depend upon it .
Make 'em your models , my dear .
Make 'em your models , ' tapping the fire-shovel on the hearth to add force to his words ; 'do everything they bid you , and take their advice in all matters -- especially the 's , my dear .
He 'll be a great man himself , and will make you one too , if you take pattern by him. -- Is my handkerchief hanging out of my pocket , my dear ? '
said the Jew , stopping short .
'See if you can take it out , without my feeling it ; as you saw them do , when we were at play this morning . '
Oliver held up the bottom of the pocket with one hand , as he had seen the Dodger hold it , and drew the handkerchief lightly out of it with the other .
'Here it is , sir , ' said , showing it in his hand .
'You 're a clever boy , my dear , ' said the playful old gentleman , patting on the head approvingly .
' I never saw a sharper lad .
Here 's a shilling for you .
If you go on , in this way , you 'll be the greatest man of the time .
And now come here , and I 'll show you how to take the marks out of the handkerchiefs . '
Oliver wondered what picking the old gentleman 's pocket in play , had to do with his chances of being a great man .
But , thinking that the Jew , being so much his senior , must know best , he followed him quietly to the table , and was soon deeply involved in his new study .
For many days , remained in the 's room , picking the marks out of the pocket-handkerchief , ( of which a great number were brought home , ) and sometimes taking part in the game already described : which the two boys and the played , regularly , every morning .
At length , he began to languish for fresh air , and took many occasions of earnestly entreating the old gentleman to allow him to go out to work with his two companions .
was rendered the more anxious to be actively employed , by what he had seen of the stern morality of the old gentleman 's character .
Whenever the Dodger or came home at night , empty-handed , he would expatiate with great vehemence on the misery of idle and lazy habits ; and would enforce upon them the necessity of an active life , by sending them supperless to bed .
On one occasion , indeed , he even went so far as to knock them both down a flight of stairs ; but this was carrying out his virtuous precepts to an unusual extent .
At length , one morning , obtained the permission he had so eagerly sought .
There had been no handkerchiefs to work upon , for two or three days , and the dinners had been rather meagre .
Perhaps these were reasons for the old gentleman 's giving his assent ; but , whether they were or no , he told Oliver he might go , and placed him under the joint guardianship of , and his friend the Dodger .
The three boys sallied out ; the Dodger with his coat-sleeves tucked up , and his hat cocked , as usual ; sauntering along with his hands in his pockets ; and between them , wondering where they were going , and what branch of manufacture he would be instructed in , first .
The pace at which they went , was such a very lazy , ill-looking saunter , that soon began to think his companions were going to deceive the old gentleman , by not going to work at all .
The had a vicious propensity , too , of pulling the caps from the heads of small boys and tossing them down areas ; while exhibited some very loose notions concerning the rights of property , by pilfering divers apples and onions from the stalls at the kennel sides , and thrusting them into pockets which were so surprisingly capacious , that they seemed to undermine his whole suit of clothes in every direction .
These things looked so bad , that was on the point of declaring his intention of seeking his way back , in the best way he could ; when his thoughts were suddenly directed into another channel , by a very mysterious change of behaviour on the part of the Dodger .
They were just emerging from a narrow court not far from the open square in , which is yet called , by some strange perversion of terms , 'The ' : when the made a sudden stop ; and , laying his finger on his lip , drew his companions back again , with the greatest caution and circumspection .
'Do you see that old cove at the book-stall ? '
'The old gentleman over the way ? '
'He 'll do , ' said the Dodger .
' A prime plant , ' observed .
Oliver looked from one to the other , with the greatest surprise ; but he was not permitted to make any inquiries ; for the two boys walked stealthily across the road , and slunk close behind the old gentleman towards whom his attention had been directed .
Oliver walked a few paces after them ; and , not knowing whether to advance or retire , stood looking on in silent amazement .
The old gentleman was a very respectable-looking personage , with a powdered head and gold spectacles .
He was dressed in a bottle-green coat with a black velvet collar ; wore white trousers ; and carried a smart bamboo cane under his arm .
He had taken up a book from the stall , and there he stood , reading away , as hard as if he were in his elbow-chair , in his own study .
It is very possible that he fancied himself there , indeed ; for it was plain , from his abstraction , that he saw not the book-stall , nor the street , nor the boys , nor , in short , anything but the book itself : which he was reading straight through : turning over the leaf when he got to the bottom of a page , beginning at the top line of the next one , and going regularly on , with the greatest interest and eagerness .
What was 's horror and alarm as he stood a few paces off , looking on with his eyelids as wide open as they would possibly go , to see the plunge his hand into the old gentleman 's pocket , and draw from thence a handkerchief !
To see him hand the same to ; and finally to behold them , both running away round the corner at full speed !
In an instant the whole mystery of the hankerchiefs , and the watches , and the jewels , and the Jew , rushed upon the boy 's mind .
He stood , for a moment , with the blood so tingling through all his veins from terror , that he felt as if he were in a burning fire ; then , confused and frightened , he took to his heels ; and , not knowing what he did , made off as fast as he could lay his feet to the ground .
This was all done in a minute 's space .
In the very instant when began to run , the old gentleman , putting his hand to his pocket , and missing his handkerchief , turned sharp round .
Seeing the boy scudding away at such a rapid pace , he very naturally concluded him to be the depredator ; and shouting 'Stop thief ! '
with all his might , made off after him , book in hand .
But the old gentleman was not the only person who raised the hue-and-cry .
The and , unwilling to attract public attention by running down the open street , had merely retired into the very first doorway round the corner .
They no sooner heard the cry , and saw running , than , guessing exactly how the matter stood , they issued forth with great promptitude ; and , shouting 'Stop thief ! '
too , joined in the pursuit like good citizens .
Although had been brought up by philosophers , he was not theoretically acquainted with the beautiful axiom that self-preservation is the first law of nature .
If he had been , perhaps he would have been prepared for this .
Not being prepared , however , it alarmed him the more ; so away he went like the wind , with the old gentleman and the two boys roaring and shouting behind him .
There is a magic in the sound .
The tradesman leaves his counter , and the car-man his waggon ; the butcher throws down his tray ; the baker his basket ; the milkman his pail ; the errand-boy his parcels ; the school-boy his marbles ; the paviour his pickaxe ; the child his battledore .
Away they run , pell-mell , helter-skelter , slap-dash : tearing , yelling , screaming , knocking down the passengers as they turn the corners , rousing up the dogs , and astonishing the fowls : and streets , squares , and courts , re-echo with the sound .
The cry is taken up by a hundred voices , and the crowd accumulate at every turning .
Away they fly , splashing through the mud , and rattling along the pavements : up go the windows , out run the people , onward bear the mob , a whole audience desert in the very thickest of the plot , and , joining the rushing throng , swell the shout , and lend fresh vigour to the cry , 'Stop thief !
There is a passion _hunting_ _something_ deeply implanted in the human breast .
One wretched breathless child , panting with exhaustion ; terror in his looks ; agony in his eyes ; large drops of perspiration streaming down his face ; strains every nerve to make head upon his pursuers ; and as they follow on his track , and gain upon him every instant , they hail his decreasing strength with joy .
, stop him for 's sake , were it only in mercy !
He is down upon the pavement ; and the crowd eagerly gather round him : each new comer , jostling and struggling with the others to catch a glimpse .
'Give him a little air ! '
'Here his is , coming down the street . '
'Make room there for the gentleman ! '
'Is this the boy , sir ! '
lay , covered with mud and dust , and bleeding from the mouth , looking wildly round upon the heap of faces that surrounded him , when the old gentleman was officiously dragged and pushed into the circle by the foremost of the pursuers .
'Yes , ' said the gentleman , ' I am afraid it is the boy . '
said the gentleman , 'he has hurt himself . '
'_I_ did that , sir , ' said a great lubberly fellow , stepping forward ; 'and preciously I cut my knuckle agin ' his mouth .
The fellow touched his hat with a grin , expecting something for his pains ; but , the old gentleman , eyeing him with an expression of dislike , look anxiously round , as if he contemplated running away himself : which it is very possible he might have attempted to do , and thus have afforded another chase , had not a police officer ( who is generally the last person to arrive in such cases ) at that moment made his way through the crowd , and seized by the collar .
'Come , get up , ' said the man , roughly .
'It was n't me indeed , sir .
Indeed , indeed , it was two other boys , ' said , clasping his hands passionately , and looking round .
'Oh no , they ai n't , ' said the officer .
He meant this to be ironical , but it was true besides ; for the and had filed off down the first convenient court they came to .
'Do n't hurt him , ' said the old gentleman , compassionately .
'Oh no , I wo n't hurt him , ' replied the officer , tearing his jacket half off his back , in proof thereof .
'Come , I know you ; it wo n't do .
Will you stand upon your legs , you young devil ? '
, who could hardly stand , made a shift to raise himself on his feet , and was at once lugged along the streets by the jacket-collar , at a rapid pace .
The gentleman walked on with them by the officer 's side ; and as many of the crowd as could achieve the feat , got a little ahead , and stared back at from time to time .
The boys shouted in triumph ; and on they went .
The offence had been committed within the district , and indeed in the immediate neighborhood of , a very notorious metropolitan police office .
The crowd had only the satisfaction of accompanying through two or three streets , and down a place called , when he was led beneath a low archway , and up a dirty court , into this dispensary of summary justice , by the back way .
It was a small paved yard into which they turned ; and here they encountered a stout man with a bunch of whiskers on his face , and a bunch of keys in his hand .
' A young fogle-hunter , ' replied the man who had in charge .
'Are you the party that 's been robbed , sir ? '
inquired the man with the keys .
'Yes , I am , ' replied the old gentleman ; 'but I am not sure that this boy actually took the handkerchief .
I -- I would rather not press the case . '
'Must go before the magistrate now , sir , ' replied the man .
'His worship will be disengaged in half a minute .
This was an invitation for to enter through a door which he unlocked as he spoke , and which led into a stone cell .
Here he was searched ; and nothing being found upon him , locked up .
This cell was in shape and size something like an area cellar , only not so light .
It was most intolerably dirty ; for it was Monday morning ; and it had been tenanted by six drunken people , who had been locked up , elsewhere , since Saturday night .
In our station-houses , men and women are every night confined on the most trivial charges -- the word is worth noting -- in dungeons , compared with which , those in , occupied by the most atrocious felons , tried , found guilty , and under sentence of death , are palaces .
Let any one who doubts this , compare the two .
The old gentleman looked almost as rueful as when the key grated in the lock .
He turned with a sigh to the book , which had been the innocent cause of all this disturbance .
'There is something in that boy 's face , ' said the old gentleman to himself as he walked slowly away , tapping his chin with the cover of the book , in a thoughtful manner ; 'something that touches and interests me .
He looked like -- Bye the bye , ' exclaimed the old gentleman , halting very abruptly , and staring up into the sky , 'Bless my soul ! -- where have I seen something like that look before ? '
After musing for some minutes , the old gentleman walked , with the same meditative face , into a back anteroom opening from the yard ; and there , retiring into a corner , called up before his mind 's eye a vast amphitheatre of faces over which a dusky curtain had hung for many years .
'No , ' said the old gentleman , shaking his head ; 'it must be imagination . '
He wandered over them again .
He had called them into view , and it was not easy to replace the shroud that had so long concealed them .
There were the faces of friends , and foes , and of many that had been almost strangers peering intrusively from the crowd ; there were the faces of young and blooming girls that were now old women ; there were faces that the grave had changed and closed upon , but which the mind , superior to its power , still dressed in their old freshness and beauty , calling back the lustre of the eyes , the brightness of the smile , the beaming of the soul through its mask of clay , and whispering of beauty beyond the tomb , changed but to be heightened , and taken from earth only to be set up as a light , to shed a soft and gentle glow upon the path to .
But the old gentleman could recall no one countenance of which 's features bore a trace .
So , he heaved a sigh over the recollections he awakened ; and being , happily for himself , an absent old gentleman , buried them again in the pages of the musty book .
He was roused by a touch on the shoulder , and a request from the man with the keys to follow him into the office .
He closed his book hastily ; and was at once ushered into the imposing presence of the renowned .
The office was a front parlour , with a panelled wall .
sat behind a bar , at the upper end ; and on one side the door was a sort of wooden pen in which poor little was already deposited ; trembling very much at the awfulness of the scene .
was a lean , long-backed , stiff-necked , middle-sized man , with no great quantity of hair , and what he had , growing on the back and sides of his head .
His face was stern , and much flushed .
If he were really not in the habit of drinking rather more than was exactly good for him , he might have brought action against his countenance for libel , and have recovered heavy damages .
The old gentleman bowed respectfully ; and advancing to the magistrate 's desk , said , suiting the action to the word , 'That is my name and address , sir . '
He then withdrew a pace or two ; and , with another polite and gentlemanly inclination of the head , waited to be questioned .
Now , it so happened that was at that moment perusing a leading article in a newspaper of the morning , adverting to some recent decision of his , and commending him , for the three hundred and fiftieth time , to the special and particular notice of the Secretary of State for the .
He was out of temper ; and he looked up with an angry scowl .
The old gentleman pointed , with some surprise , to his card .
said , tossing the card contemptuously away with the newspaper .
'My name , sir , ' said the old gentleman , speaking _like_ a gentleman , 'my name , sir , is .
Permit me to inquire the name of the magistrate who offers a gratuitous and unprovoked insult to a respectable person , under the protection of the bench . '
Saying this , looked around the office as if in search of some person who would afford him the required information .
said , throwing the paper on one side , 'what 's this fellow charged with ? '
'He 's not charged at all , your worship , ' replied the officer .
'He appears against this boy , your worship . '
His worship knew this perfectly well ; but it was a good annoyance , and a safe one .
'Appears against the boy , does he ? '
said , surveying contemptuously from head to foot .
'Before I am sworn , I must beg to say one word , ' said ; 'and that is , that I really never , without actual experience , could have believed -- ' 'Hold your tongue , sir ! '
'Hold your tongue this instant , or I 'll have you turned out of the office ! '
'You 're an insolent impertinent fellow .
How dare you bully a magistrate ! '
exclaimed the old gentleman , reddening .
said to the clerk .
' I 'll not hear another word .
's indignation was greatly roused ; but reflecting perhaps , that he might only injure the boy by giving vent to it , he suppressed his feelings and submitted to be sworn at once .
'Now , ' said , 'what 's the charge against this boy ?
What have you got to say , sir ? '
' I was standing at a bookstall -- ' began .
'Hold your tongue , sir , ' said .
Now , policeman , what is this ? '
The policeman , with becoming humility , related how he had taken the charge ; how he had searched , and found nothing on his person ; and how that was all he knew about it .
'None , your worship , ' replied the policeman .
sat silent for some minutes , and then , turning round to the prosecutor , said in a towering passion .
'Do you mean to state what your complaint against this boy is , man , or do you not ?
Now , if you stand there , refusing to give evidence , I 'll punish you for disrespect to the bench ; I will , by -- ' By what , or by whom , nobody knows , for the clerk and jailor coughed very loud , just at the right moment ; and the former dropped a heavy book upon the floor , thus preventing the word from being heard -- accidently , of course .
With many interruptions , and repeated insults , contrived to state his case ; observing that , in the surprise of the moment , he had run after the boy because he had saw him running away ; and expressing his hope that , if the magistrate should believe him , although not actually the thief , to be connected with the thieves , he would deal as leniently with him as justice would allow .
'He has been hurt already , ' said the old gentleman in conclusion .
'And I fear , ' he added , with great energy , looking towards the bar , ' I really fear that he is ill. ' 'Oh !
said , with a sneer .
'Come , none of your tricks here , you young vagabond ; they wo n't do .
Oliver tried to reply but his tongue failed him .
He was deadly pale ; and the whole place seemed turning round and round .
'What 's your name , you hardened scoundrel ? '
This was addressed to a bluff old fellow , in a striped waistcoat , who was standing by the bar .
He bent over , and repeated the inquiry ; but finding him really incapable of understanding the question ; and knowing that his not replying would only infuriate the magistrate the more , and add to the severity of his sentence ; he hazarded a guess .
'He says his name 's , your worship , ' said the kind-hearted thief-taker .
'Oh , he wo n't speak out , wo n't he ? '
'Where he can , your worship , ' replied the officer ; again pretending to receive 's answer .
'He says they died in his infancy , your worship , ' replied the officer : hazarding the usual reply .
At this point of the inquiry , raised his head ; and , looking round with imploring eyes , murmured a feeble prayer for a draught of water .
said : 'do n't try to make a fool of me . '
' I think he really is ill , your worship , ' remonstrated the officer .
' I know better , ' said .
'Take care of him , officer , ' said the old gentleman , raising his hands instinctively ; 'he 'll fall down . '
'Stand away , officer , ' cried ; 'let him , if he likes . '
Oliver availed himself of the kind permission , and fell to the floor in a fainting fit .
The men in the office looked at each other , but no one dared to stir .
' I knew he was shamming , ' said , as if this were incontestable proof of the fact .
'Let him lie there ; he 'll soon be tired of that . '
'How do you propose to deal with the case , sir ? '
inquired the clerk in a low voice .
'He stands committed for three months -- hard labour of course .
The door was opened for this purpose , and a couple of men were preparing to carry the insensible boy to his cell ; when an elderly man of decent but poor appearance , clad in an old suit of black , rushed hastily into the office , and advanced towards the bench .
For 's sake stop a moment ! '
cried the new comer , breathless with haste .
Although the presiding Genii in such an office as this , exercise a summary and arbitrary power over the liberties , the good name , the character , almost the lives , of 's subjects , expecially of the poorer class ; and although , within such walls , enough fantastic tricks are daily played to make the angels blind with weeping ; they are closed to the public , save through the medium of the daily press .
[ Footnote : Or were virtually , then . ]
was consequently not a little indignant to see an unbidden guest enter in such irreverent disorder .
' I _will_ speak , ' cried the man ; ' I will not be turned out .
I demand to be sworn .
I will not be put down .
, you must hear me .
You must not refuse , sir . '
His manner was determined ; and the matter was growing rather too serious to be hushed up .
'Swear the man , ' growled , with a very ill grace .
'Now , man , what have you got to say ? '
'This , ' said the man : ' I saw three boys : two others and the prisoner here : loitering on the opposite side of the way , when this gentleman was reading .
The robbery was committed by another boy .
I saw it done ; and I saw that this boy was perfectly amazed and stupified by it . '
Having by this time recovered a little breath , the worthy book-stall keeper proceeded to relate , in a more coherent manner the exact circumstances of the robbery .
'Why did n't you come here before ? '
said , after a pause .
' I had n't a soul to mind the shop , ' replied the man .
'Everybody who could have helped me , had joined in the pursuit .
I could get nobody till five minutes ago ; and I 've run here all the way . '
'The prosecutor was reading , was he ? '
inquired , after another pause .
'The very book he has in his hand . '
'No , it is not , ' replied the man , with a smile .
'Dear me , I forgot all about it ! '
exclaimed the absent old gentleman , innocently .
' A nice person to prefer a charge against a poor boy ! '
said , with a comical effort to look humane .
' I consider , sir , that you have obtained possession of that book , under very suspicious and disreputable circumstances ; and you may think yourself very fortunate that the owner of the property declines to prosecute .
Let this be a lesson to you , my man , or the law will overtake you yet .
cried the old gentleman , bursting out with the rage he had kept down so long , 'd -- n me !
The mandate was obeyed ; and the indignant was conveyed out , with the book in one hand , and the bamboo cane in the other : in a perfect phrenzy of rage and defiance .
He reached the yard ; and his passion vanished in a moment .
Little Oliver lay on his back on the pavement , with his shirt unbuttoned , and his temples bathed with water ; his face a deadly white ; and a cold tremble convulsing his whole frame .
said , bending over him .
'Call a coach , somebody , pray .
A coach was obtained , and Oliver having been carefully laid on the seat , the old gentleman got in and sat himself on the other .
said the book-stall keeper , looking in .
'Bless me , yes , my dear sir , ' said quickly .
I have this unhappy book still !
There 's no time to lose . '
The book-stall keeper got into the coach ; and away they drove .
The coach rattled away , over nearly the same ground as that which had traversed when he first entered in company with the ; and , turning a different way when it reached the Angel at , stopped at length before a neat house , in a quiet shady street near .
Here , a bed was prepared , without loss of time , in which saw his young charge carefully and comfortably deposited ; and here , he was tended with a kindness and solicitude that knew no bounds .
But , for many days , remained insensible to all the goodness of his new friends .
The sun rose and sank , and rose and sank again , and many times after that ; and still the boy lay stretched on his uneasy bed , dwindling away beneath the dry and wasting heat of fever .
The worm does not work more surely on the dead body , than does this slow creeping fire upon the living frame .
, and thin , and pallid , he awoke at last from what seemed to have been a long and troubled dream .
Feebly raising himself in the bed , with his head resting on his trembling arm , he looked anxiously around .
Where have I been brought to ? '
'This is not the place I went to sleep in . '
He uttered these words in a feeble voice , being very faint and weak ; but they were overheard at once .
The curtain at the bed 's head was hastily drawn back , and a motherly old lady , very neatly and precisely dressed , rose as she undrew it , from an arm-chair close by , in which she had been sitting at needle-work .
'Hush , my dear , ' said the old lady softly .
'You must be very quiet , or you will be ill again ; and you have been very bad , -- as bad as bad could be , pretty nigh .
Lie down again ; there 's a dear ! '
With those words , the old lady very gently placed 's head upon the pillow ; and , smoothing back his hair from his forehead , looked so kindly and loving in his face , that he could not help placing his little withered hand in hers , and drawing it round his neck .
said the old lady , with tears in her eyes .
'What a grateful little dear it is .
What would his mother feel if she had sat by him as I have , and could see him now ! '
'Perhaps she does see me , ' whispered , folding his hands together ; 'perhaps she has sat by me .
I almost feel as if she had . '
'That was the fever , my dear , ' said the old lady mildly .
' I suppose it was , ' replied , 'because heaven is a long way off ; and they are too happy there , to come down to the bedside of a poor boy .
But if she knew I was ill , she must have pitied me , even there ; for she was very ill herself before she died .
She ca n't know anything about me though , ' added after a moment 's silence .
'If she had seen me hurt , it would have made her sorrowful ; and her face has always looked sweet and happy , when I have dreamed of her . '
The old lady made no reply to this ; but wiping her eyes first , and her spectacles , which lay on the counterpane , afterwards , as if they were part and parcel of those features , brought some cool stuff for to drink ; and then , patting him on the cheek , told him he must lie very quiet , or he would be ill again .
So , kept very still ; partly because he was anxious to obey the kind old lady in all things ; and partly , to tell the truth , because he was completely exhausted with what he had already said .
He soon fell into a gentle doze , from which he was awakened by the light of a candle : which , being brought near the bed , showed him a gentleman with a very large and loud-ticking gold watch in his hand , who felt his pulse , and said he was a great deal better .
'You _are_ a great deal better , are you not , my dear ? '
'Yes , thank you , sir , ' replied .
'Yes , I know you are , ' said the gentleman : 'You 're hungry too , a n't you ? '
'No , I know you 're not .
He is not hungry , Mrs. Bedwin , ' said the gentleman : looking very wise .
The old lady made a respectful inclination of the head , which seemed to say that she thought the doctor was a very clever man .
The doctor appeared much of the same opinion himself .
'You feel sleepy , do n't you , my dear ? '
'No , ' said the doctor , with a very shrewd and satisfied look .
'Yes , sir , rather thirsty , ' answered .
'Just as I expected , Mrs. Bedwin , ' said the doctor .
'It 's very natural that he should be thirsty .
You may give him a little tea , ma'am , and some dry toast without any butter .
Do n't keep him too warm , ma'am ; but be careful that you do n't let him be too cold ; will you have the goodness ? '
The old lady dropped a curtsey .
The doctor , after tasting the cool stuff , and expressing a qualified approval of it , hurried away : his boots creaking in a very important and wealthy manner as he went downstairs .
dozed off again , soon after this ; when he awoke , it was nearly twelve o'clock .
The old lady tenderly bade him good-night shortly afterwards , and left him in charge of a fat old woman who had just come : bringing with her , in a little bundle , a small and a large nightcap .
Putting the latter on her head and the former on the table , the old woman , after telling that she had come to sit up with him , drew her chair close to the fire and went off into a series of short naps , chequered at frequent intervals with sundry tumblings forward , and divers moans and chokings .
These , however , had no worse effect than causing her to rub her nose very hard , and then fall asleep again .
And thus the night crept slowly on .
lay awake for some time , counting the little circles of light which the reflection of the rushlight-shade threw upon the ceiling ; or tracing with his languid eyes the intricate pattern of the paper on the wall .
The darkness and the deep stillness of the room were very solemn ; as they brought into the boy 's mind the thought that death had been hovering there , for many days and nights , and might yet fill it with the gloom and dread of his awful presence , he turned his face upon the pillow , and fervently prayed to .
Gradually , he fell into that deep tranquil sleep which ease from recent suffering alone imparts ; that calm and peaceful rest which it is pain to wake from .
Who , if this were death , would be roused again to all the struggles and turmoils of life ; to all its cares for the present ; its anxieties for the future ; more than all , its weary recollections of the past !
It had been bright day , for hours , when opened his eyes ; he felt cheerful and happy .
The crisis of the disease was safely past .
He belonged to the world again .
In three days ' time he was able to sit in an easy-chair , well propped up with pillows ; and , as he was still too weak to walk , Mrs. had him carried downstairs into the little housekeeper 's room , which belonged to her .
Having him set , here , by the fire-side , the good old lady sat herself down too ; and , being in a state of considerable delight at seeing him so much better , forthwith began to cry most violently .
'Never mind me , my dear , ' said the old lady ; ' I 'm only having a regular good cry .
There ; it 's all over now ; and I 'm quite comfortable . '
'You 're very , very kind to me , ma'am , ' said .
'Well , never you mind that , my dear , ' said the old lady ; 'that 's got nothing to do with your broth ; and it 's full time you had it ; for the doctor says may come in to see you this morning ; and we must get up our best looks , because the better we look , the more he 'll be pleased . '
And with this , the old lady applied herself to warming up , in a little saucepan , a basin full of broth : strong enough , thought , to furnish an ample dinner , when reduced to the regulation strength , for three hundred and fifty paupers , at the lowest computation .
'Are you fond of pictures , dear ? '
inquired the old lady , seeing that had fixed his eyes , most intently , on a portrait which hung against the wall ; just opposite his chair .
' I do n't quite know , ma'am , ' said , without taking his eyes from the canvas ; ' I have seen so few that I hardly know .
What a beautiful , mild face that lady 's is ! '
said the old lady , 'painters always make ladies out prettier than they are , or they would n't get any custom , child .
The man that invented the machine for taking likenesses might have known that would never succeed ; it 's a deal too honest .
A deal , ' said the old lady , laughing very heartily at her own acuteness .
'Is -- is that a likeness , ma'am ? '
'Yes , ' said the old lady , looking up for a moment from the broth ; 'that 's a portrait . '
'Why , really , my dear , I do n't know , ' answered the old lady in a good-humoured manner .
'It 's not a likeness of anybody that you or I know , I expect .
It seems to strike your fancy , dear . '
'It is so pretty , ' replied .
'Why , sure you 're not afraid of it ? '
said the old lady : observing in great surprise , the look of awe with which the child regarded the painting .
'Oh no , no , ' returned quickly ; 'but the eyes look so sorrowful ; and where I sit , they seem fixed upon me .
It makes my heart beat , ' added in a low voice , 'as if it was alive , and wanted to speak to me , but could n't . '
exclaimed the old lady , starting ; 'do n't talk in that way , child .
You 're weak and nervous after your illness .
Let me wheel your chair round to the other side ; and then you wo n't see it .
said the old lady , suiting the action to the word ; 'you do n't see it now , at all events . '
_did_ see it in his mind 's eye as distinctly as if he had not altered his position ; but he thought it better not to worry the kind old lady ; so he smiled gently when she looked at him ; and Mrs. Bedwin , satisfied that he felt more comfortable , salted and broke bits of toasted bread into the broth , with all the bustle befitting so solemn a preparation .
got through it with extraordinary expedition .
He had scarcely swallowed the last spoonful , when there came a soft rap at the door .
'Come in , ' said the old lady ; and in walked .
Now , the old gentleman came in as brisk as need be ; but , he had no sooner raised his spectacles on his forehead , and thrust his hands behind the skirts of his dressing-gown to take a good long look at , than his countenance underwent a very great variety of odd contortions .
Oliver looked very worn and shadowy from sickness , and made an ineffectual attempt to stand up , out of respect to his benefactor , which terminated in his sinking back into the chair again ; and the fact is , if the truth must be told , that 's heart , being large enough for any six ordinary old gentlemen of humane disposition , forced a supply of tears into his eyes , by some hydraulic process which we are not sufficiently philosophical to be in a condition to explain .
said , clearing his throat .
' I 'm rather hoarse this morning , Mrs. Bedwin .
I 'm afraid I have caught cold . '
' I hope not , sir , ' said Mrs. Bedwin .
'Everything you have had , has been well aired , sir . '
I do n't know , ' said ; ' I rather think I had a damp napkin at dinner-time yesterday ; but never mind that .
How do you feel , my dear ? '
'Very happy , sir , ' replied .
'And very grateful indeed , sir , for your goodness to me . '
'Good by , ' said , stoutly .
'Have you given him any nourishment , ?
'He has just had a basin of beautiful strong broth , sir , ' replied Mrs. Bedwin : drawing herself up slightly , and laying strong emphasis on the last word : to intimate that between slops , and broth will compounded , there existed no affinity or connection whatsoever .
said , with a slight shudder ; ' a couple of glasses of port wine would have done him a great deal more good .
Would n't they , , eh ? '
'My name is , sir , ' replied the little invalid : with a look of great astonishment .
'Oliver , ' said ; 'Oliver what ?
'No , sir , , . '
'What made you tell the magistrate your name was ? '
' I never told him so , sir , ' returned in amazement .
This sounded so like a falsehood , that the old gentleman looked somewhat sternly in 's face .
It was impossible to doubt him ; there was truth in every one of its thin and sharpened lineaments .
'Some mistake , ' said .
But , although his motive for looking steadily at no longer existed , the old idea of the resemblance between his features and some familiar face came upon him so strongly , that he could not withdraw his gaze .
' I hope you are not angry with me , sir ? '
said , raising his eyes beseechingly .
'No , no , ' replied the old gentleman .
As he spoke , he pointed hastily to the picture over 's head , and then to the boy 's face .
There was its living copy .
The eyes , the head , the mouth ; every feature was the same .
The expression was , for the instant , so precisely alike , that the minutest line seemed copied with startling accuracy !
Oliver knew not the cause of this sudden exclamation ; for , not being strong enough to bear the start it gave him , he fainted away .
A weakness on his part , which affords the narrative an opportunity of relieving the reader from suspense , in behalf of the two young pupils of the Gentleman ; and of recording -- That when the , and his accomplished friend , joined in the hue-and-cry which was raised at 's heels , in consequence of their executing an illegal conveyance of 's personal property , as has been already described , they were actuated by a very laudable and becoming regard for themselves ; and forasmuch as the freedom of the subject and the liberty of the individual are among the first and proudest boasts of a true-hearted Englishman , so , I need hardly beg the reader to observe , that this action should tend to exalt them in the opinion of all public and patriotic men , in almost as great a degree as this strong proof of their anxiety for their own preservation and safety goes to corroborate and confirm the little code of laws which certain profound and sound-judging philosophers have laid down as the main-springs of all Nature 's deeds and actions : the said philosophers very wisely reducing the good lady 's proceedings to matters of maxim and theory : and , by a very neat and pretty compliment to her exalted wisdom and understanding , putting entirely out of sight any considerations of heart , or generous impulse and feeling .
For , these are matters totally beneath a female who is acknowledged by universal admission to be far above the numerous little foibles and weaknesses of her sex .
If I wanted any further proof of the strictly philosophical nature of the conduct of these young gentlemen in their very delicate predicament , I should at once find it in the fact ( also recorded in a foregoing part of this narrative ) , of their quitting the pursuit , when the general attention was fixed upon ; and making immediately for their home by the shortest possible cut .
Although I do not mean to assert that it is usually the practice of renowned and learned sages , to shorten the road to any great conclusion ( their course indeed being rather to lengthen the distance , by various circumlocutions and discursive staggerings , like unto those in which drunken men under the pressure of a too mighty flow of ideas , are prone to indulge ) ; still , I do mean to say , and do say distinctly , that it is the invariable practice of many mighty philosophers , in carrying out their theories , to evince great wisdom and foresight in providing against every possible contingency which can be supposed at all likely to affect themselves .
Thus , to do a great right , you may do a little wrong ; and you may take any means which the end to be attained , will justify ; the amount of the right , or the amount of the wrong , or indeed the distinction between the two , being left entirely to the philosopher concerned , to be settled and determined by his clear , comprehensive , and impartial view of his own particular case .
It was not until the two boys had scoured , with great rapidity , through a most intricate maze of narrow streets and courts , that they ventured to halt beneath a low and dark archway .
Having remained silent here , just long enough to recover breath to speak , uttered an exclamation of amusement and delight ; and , bursting into an uncontrollable fit of laughter , flung himself upon a doorstep , and rolled thereon in a transport of mirth .
'Hold your noise , ' remonstrated the , looking cautiously round .
'Do you want to be grabbed , stupid ? '
' I ca n't help it , ' said , ' I ca n't help it !
To see him splitting away at that pace , and cutting round the corners , and knocking up again ' the posts , and starting on again as if he was made of iron as well as them , and me with the wipe in my pocket , singing out arter him -- oh , my eye ! '
The vivid imagination of presented the scene before him in too strong colours .
As he arrived at this apostrophe , he again rolled upon the door-step , and laughed louder than before .
inquired the ; taking advantage of the next interval of breathlessness on the part of his friend to propound the question .
'Why , what should he say ? '
inquired Charley : stopping rather suddenly in his merriment ; for the 's manner was impressive .
whistled for a couple of minutes ; then , taking off his hat , scratched his head , and nodded thrice .
'Toor rul lol loo , gammon and spinnage , the frog he would n't , and high cockolorum , ' said the Dodger : with a slight sneer on his intellectual countenance .
This was explanatory , but not satisfactory .
felt it so ; and again said , 'What do you mean ? '
The made no reply ; but putting his hat on again , and gathering the skirts of his long-tailed coat under his arm , thrust his tongue into his cheek , slapped the bridge of his nose some half-dozen times in a familiar but expressive manner , and turning on his heel , slunk down the court .
followed , with a thoughtful countenance .
The noise of footsteps on the creaking stairs , a few minutes after the occurrence of this conversation , roused the merry old gentleman as he sat over the fire with a saveloy and a small loaf in his hand ; a pocket-knife in his right ; and a pewter pot on the trivet .
There was a rascally smile on his white face as he turned round , and looking sharply out from under his thick red eyebrows , bent his ear towards the door , and listened .
muttered the Jew : changing countenance ; 'only two of 'em ?
They ca n't have got into trouble .
The footsteps approached nearer ; they reached the landing .
The door was slowly opened ; and the and entered , closing it behind them .
said the Jew , rising with a menacing look .
The young thieves eyed their preceptor as if they were alarmed at his violence ; and looked uneasily at each other .
But they made no reply .
'What 's become of the boy ? '
said the Jew , seizing the Dodger tightly by the collar , and threatening him with horrid imprecations .
'Speak out , or I 'll throttle you ! '
looked so very much in earnest , that , who deemed it prudent in all cases to be on the safe side , and who conceived it by no means improbable that it might be his turn to be throttled second , dropped upon his knees , and raised a loud , well-sustained , and continuous roar -- something between a mad bull and a speaking trumpet .
thundered the Jew : shaking the Dodger so much that his keeping in the big coat at all , seemed perfectly miraculous .
'Why , the traps have got him , and that 's all about it , ' said the , sullenly .
'Come , let go o ' me , will you ! '
And , swinging himself , at one jerk , clean out of the big coat , which he left in the 's hands , the snatched up the toasting fork , and made a pass at the merry old gentleman 's waistcoat ; which , if it had taken effect , would have let a little more merriment out than could have been easily replaced .
The stepped back in this emergency , with more agility than could have been anticipated in a man of his apparent decrepitude ; and , seizing up the pot , prepared to hurl it at his assailant 's head .
But , at this moment , calling his attention by a perfectly terrific howl , he suddenly altered its destination , and flung it full at that young gentleman .
'Why , what the blazes is in the wind now ! '
'Who pitched that 'ere at me ?
It 's well it 's the beer , and not the pot , as hit me , or I 'd have settled somebody .
I might have know 'd , as nobody but an infernal , rich , plundering , thundering old Jew could afford to throw away any drink but water -- and not that , unless he done the every quarter .
's it all about , ?
D -- me , if my neck-handkercher a n't lined with beer !
Come in , you sneaking warmint ; wot are you stopping outside for , as if you was ashamed of your master !
The man who growled out these words , was a stoutly-built fellow of about five-and-thirty , in a black velveteen coat , very soiled drab breeches , lace-up half boots , and grey cotton stockings which inclosed a bulky pair of legs , with large swelling calves ; -- the kind of legs , which in such costume , always look in an unfinished and incomplete state without a set of fetters to garnish them .
He had a brown hat on his head , and a dirty belcher handkerchief round his neck : with the long frayed ends of which he smeared the beer from his face as he spoke .
He disclosed , when he had done so , a broad heavy countenance with a beard of three days ' growth , and two scowling eyes ; one of which displayed various parti-coloured symptoms of having been recently damaged by a blow .
A white shaggy dog , with his face scratched and torn in twenty different places , skulked into the room .
'Why did n't you come in afore ? '
'You 're getting too proud to own me afore company , are you ?
This command was accompanied with a kick , which sent the animal to the other end of the room .
He appeared well used to it , however ; for he coiled himself up in a corner very quietly , without uttering a sound , and winking his very ill-looking eyes twenty times in a minute , appeared to occupy himself in taking a survey of the apartment .
'What are you up to ?
Ill-treating the boys , you covetous , avaricious , in-sa-ti-a-ble old fence ? '
said the man , seating himself deliberately .
' I wonder they do n't murder you !
I would if I was them .
If I 'd been your 'prentice , I 'd have done it long ago , and -- no , I could n't have sold you afterwards , for you 're fit for nothing but keeping as a curiousity of ugliness in a glass bottle , and I suppose they do n't blow glass bottles large enough . '
, ' said the Jew , trembling ; 'do n't speak so loud ! '
'None of your mistering , ' replied the ruffian ; 'you always mean mischief when you come that .
You know my name : out with it !
I sha n't disgrace it when the time comes . '
'Well , well , then -- , ' said the Jew , with abject humility .
'You seem out of humour , . '
'Perhaps I am , ' replied ; ' I should think you was rather out of sorts too , unless you mean as little harm when you throw pewter pots about , as you do when you blab and -- ' 'Are you mad ? '
said the Jew , catching the man by the sleeve , and pointing towards the boys .
contented himself with tying an imaginary knot under his left ear , and jerking his head over on the right shoulder ; a piece of dumb show which the appeared to understand perfectly .
He then , in cant terms , with which his whole conversation was plentifully besprinkled , but which would be quite unintelligible if they were recorded here , demanded a glass of liquor .
'And mind you do n't poison it , ' said , laying his hat upon the table .
This was said in jest ; but if the speaker could have seen the evil leer with which the Jew bit his pale lip as he turned round to the cupboard , he might have thought the caution not wholly unnecessary , or the wish ( at all events ) to improve upon the distiller 's ingenuity not very far from the old gentleman 's merry heart .
After swallowing two of three glasses of spirits , condescended to take some notice of the young gentlemen ; which gracious act led to a conversation , in which the cause and manner of 's capture were circumstantially detailed , with such alterations and improvements on the truth , as to the appeared most advisable under the circumstances .
' I 'm afraid , ' said the Jew , 'that he may say something which will get us into trouble . '
'That 's very likely , ' returned with a malicious grin .
'And I 'm afraid , you see , ' added the Jew , speaking as if he had not noticed the interruption ; and regarding the other closely as he did so , -- ' I 'm afraid that , if the game was up with us , it might be up with a good many more , and that it would come out rather worse for you than it would for me , my dear . '
The man started , and turned round upon the Jew .
But the old gentleman 's shoulders were shrugged up to his ears ; and his eyes were vacantly staring on the opposite wall .
There was a long pause .
Every member of the respectable coterie appeared plunged in his own reflections ; not excepting the dog , who by a certain malicious licking of his lips seemed to be meditating an attack upon the legs of the first gentleman or lady he might encounter in the streets when he went out .
'Somebody must find out wot 's been done at the office , ' said in a much lower tone than he had taken since he came in .
'If he has n't peached , and is committed , there 's no fear till he comes out again , ' said , 'and then he must be taken care on .
You must get hold of him somehow . '
The prudence of this line of action , indeed , was obvious ; but , unfortunately , there was one very strong objection to its being adopted .
This was , that the , and , and , and , happened , one and all , to entertain a violent and deeply-rooted antipathy to going near a police-office on any ground or pretext whatever .
How long they might have sat and looked at each other , in a state of uncertainty not the most pleasant of its kind , it is difficult to guess .
It is not necessary to make any guesses on the subject , however ; for the sudden entrance of the two young ladies whom had seen on a former occasion , caused the conversation to flow afresh .
'Bet will go ; wo n't you , my dear ? '
'Only just up to the office , my dear , ' said the Jew coaxingly .
It is due to the young lady to say that she did not positively affirm that she would not , but that she merely expressed an emphatic and earnest desire to be 'blessed ' if she would ; a polite and delicate evasion of the request , which shows the young lady to have been possessed of that natural good breeding which can not bear to inflict upon a fellow-creature , the pain of a direct and pointed refusal .
He turned from this young lady , who was gaily , not to say gorgeously attired , in a red gown , green boots , and yellow curl-papers , to the other female .
'Nancy , my dear , ' said the Jew in a soothing manner , 'what do YOU say ? '
'That it wo n't do ; so it 's no use a-trying it on , , ' replied .
'What do you mean by that ? '
said , looking up in a surly manner .
'What I say , , ' replied the lady collectedly .
'Why , you 're just the very person for it , ' reasoned : 'nobody about here knows anything of you . '
'And as I do n't want 'em to , neither , ' replied in the same composed manner , 'it 's rather more no than yes with me , . '
'She 'll go , , ' said .
'No , she wo n't , , ' said .
'Yes , she will , , ' said .
And was right .
By dint of alternate threats , promises , and bribes , the lady in question was ultimately prevailed upon to undertake the commission .
She was not , indeed , withheld by the same considerations as her agreeable friend ; for , having recently removed into the neighborhood of from the remote but genteel suburb of , she was not under the same apprehension of being recognised by any of her numerous acquaintances .
Accordingly , with a clean white apron tied over her gown , and her curl-papers tucked up under a straw bonnet , -- both articles of dress being provided from the 's inexhaustible stock , -- prepared to issue forth on her errand .
'Stop a minute , my dear , ' said the Jew , producing , a little covered basket .
'Carry that in one hand .
It looks more respectable , my dear . '
'Give her a door-key to carry in her t'other one , , ' said ; 'it looks real and genivine like . '
'Yes , yes , my dear , so it does , ' said the Jew , hanging a large street-door key on the forefinger of the young lady 's right hand .
Very good indeed , my dear ! '
said the Jew , rubbing his hands .
My poor , dear , sweet , innocent little brother ! '
exclaimed , bursting into tears , and wringing the little basket and the street-door key in an agony of distress .
'What has become of him !
Where have they taken him to !
Oh , do have pity , and tell me what 's been done with the dear boy , gentlemen ; do , gentlemen , if you please , gentlemen ! '
Having uttered those words in a most lamentable and heart-broken tone : to the immeasurable delight of her hearers : paused , winked to the company , nodded smilingly round , and disappeared .
'Ah , she 's a clever girl , my dears , ' said the Jew , turning round to his young friends , and shaking his head gravely , as if in mute admonition to them to follow the bright example they had just beheld .
'She 's a honour to her sex , ' said , filling his glass , and smiting the table with his enormous fist .
'Here 's her health , and wishing they was all like her ! '
While these , and many other encomiums , were being passed on the accomplished , that young lady made the best of her way to the police-office ; whither , notwithstanding a little natural timidity consequent upon walking through the streets alone and unprotected , she arrived in perfect safety shortly afterwards .
Entering by the back way , she tapped softly with the key at one of the cell-doors , and listened .
There was no sound within : so she coughed and listened again .
Still there was no reply : so she spoke .
murmured in a gentle voice ; 'Nolly ? '
There was nobody inside but a miserable shoeless criminal , who had been taken up for playing the flute , and who , the offence against society having been clearly proved , had been very properly committed by to the of for one month ; with the appropriate and amusing remark that since he had so much breath to spare , it would be more wholesomely expended on the treadmill than in a musical instrument .
He made no answer : being occupied mentally bewailing the loss of the flute , which had been confiscated for the use of the county : so passed on to the next cell , and knocked there .
cried a faint and feeble voice .
'Is there a little boy here ? '
inquired , with a preliminary sob .
'No , ' replied the voice ; 'God forbid . '
This was a vagrant of sixty-five , who was going to prison for _not_ playing the flute ; or , in other words , for begging in the streets , and doing nothing for his livelihood .
In the next cell was another man , who was going to the same prison for hawking tin saucepans without license ; thereby doing something for his living , in defiance of the Stamp-office .
But , as neither of these criminals answered to the name of , or knew anything about him , made straight up to the bluff officer in the striped waistcoat ; and with the most piteous wailings and lamentations , rendered more piteous by a prompt and efficient use of the street-door key and the little basket , demanded her own dear brother .
' I have n't got him , my dear , ' said the old man .
screamed , in a distracted manner .
'Why , the gentleman 's got him , ' replied the officer .
In reply to this incoherent questioning , the old man informed the deeply affected sister that had been taken ill in the office , and discharged in consequence of a witness having proved the robbery to have been committed by another boy , not in custody ; and that the prosecutor had carried him away , in an insensible condition , to his own residence : of and concerning which , all the informant knew was , that it was somewhere in , he having heard that word mentioned in the directions to the coachman .
In a dreadful state of doubt and uncertainty , the agonised young woman staggered to the gate , and then , exchanging her faltering walk for a swift run , returned by the most devious and complicated route she could think of , to the domicile of the Jew .
no sooner heard the account of the expedition delivered , than he very hastily called up the white dog , and , putting on his hat , expeditiously departed : without devoting any time to the formality of wishing the company good-morning .
'We must know where he is , my dears ; he must be found , ' said the Jew greatly excited .
'Charley , do nothing but skulk about , till you bring home some news of him !
, my dear , I must have him found .
I trust to you , my dear , -- to you and the for everything !
, stay , ' added the Jew , unlocking a drawer with a shaking hand ; 'there 's money , my dears .
I shall shut up this shop to-night .
You 'll know where to find me !
Do n't stop here a minute .
Not an instant , my dears ! '
With these words , he pushed them from the room : and carefully double-locking and barring the door behind them , drew from its place of concealment the box which he had unintentionally disclosed to .
Then , he hastily proceeded to dispose the watches and jewellery beneath his clothing .
A rap at the door startled him in this occupation .
he cried in a shrill tone .
replied the voice of the , through the key-hole .
'Is he to be kidnapped to the other ken , says ? '
'Yes , ' replied the Jew , 'wherever she lays hands on him .
Find him , find him out , that 's all .
I shall know what to do next ; never fear . '
The boy murmured a reply of intelligence : and hurried downstairs after his companions .
'He has not peached so far , ' said the Jew as he pursued his occupation .
'If he means to blab us among his new friends , we may stop his mouth yet . '
Oliver soon recovering from the fainting-fit into which 's abrupt exclamation had thrown him , the subject of the picture was carefully avoided , both by the old gentleman and Mrs. Bedwin , in the conversation that ensued : which indeed bore no reference to 's history or prospects , but was confined to such topics as might amuse without exciting him .
He was still too weak to get up to breakfast ; but , when he came down into the housekeeper 's room next day , his first act was to cast an eager glance at the wall , in the hope of again looking on the face of the beautiful lady .
His expectations were disappointed , however , for the picture had been removed .
said the housekeeper , watching the direction of 's eyes .
'It is gone , you see . '
' I see it is ma'am , ' replied .
'Why have they taken it away ? '
'It has been taken down , child , because said , that as it seemed to worry you , perhaps it might prevent your getting well , you know , ' rejoined the old lady .
It did n't worry me , ma'am , ' said .
' I liked to see it .
said the old lady , good-humouredly ; 'you get well as fast as ever you can , dear , and it shall be hung up again .
Now , let us talk about something else . '
This was all the information could obtain about the picture at that time .
As the old lady had been so kind to him in his illness , he endeavoured to think no more of the subject just then ; so he listened attentively to a great many stories she told him , about an amiable and handsome daughter of hers , who was married to an amiable and handsome man , and lived in the country ; and about a son , who was clerk to a merchant in the ; and who was , also , such a good young man , and wrote such dutiful letters home four times a-year , that it brought the tears into her eyes to talk about them .
When the old lady had expatiated , a long time , on the excellences of her children , and the merits of her kind good husband besides , who had been dead and gone , poor dear soul !
just six-and-twenty years , it was time to have tea .
After tea she began to teach cribbage : which he learnt as quickly as she could teach : and at which game they played , with great interest and gravity , until it was time for the invalid to have some warm wine and water , with a slice of dry toast , and then to go cosily to bed .
They were happy days , those of 's recovery .
Everything was so quiet , and neat , and orderly ; everybody so kind and gentle ; that after the noise and turbulence in the midst of which he had always lived , it seemed like Heaven itself .
He was no sooner strong enough to put his clothes on , properly , than caused a complete new suit , and a new cap , and a new pair of shoes , to be provided for him .
As was told that he might do what he liked with the old clothes , he gave them to a servant who had been very kind to him , and asked her to sell them to a Jew , and keep the money for herself .
This she very readily did ; and , as looked out of the parlour window , and saw the Jew roll them up in his bag and walk away , he felt quite delighted to think that they were safely gone , and that there was now no possible danger of his ever being able to wear them again .
They were sad rags , to tell the truth ; and had never had a new suit before .
One evening , about a week after the affair of the picture , as he was sitting talking to Mrs. Bedwin , there came a message down from , that if felt pretty well , he should like to see him in his study , and talk to him a little while .
'Bless us , and save us !
Wash your hands , and let me part your hair nicely for you , child , ' said Mrs. Bedwin .
If we had known he would have asked for you , we would have put you a clean collar on , and made you as smart as sixpence ! '
Oliver did as the old lady bade him ; and , although she lamented grievously , meanwhile , that there was not even time to crimp the little frill that bordered his shirt-collar ; he looked so delicate and handsome , despite that important personal advantage , that she went so far as to say : looking at him with great complacency from head to foot , that she really did n't think it would have been possible , on the longest notice , to have made much difference in him for the better .
Thus encouraged , tapped at the study door .
On calling to him to come in , he found himself in a little back room , quite full of books , with a window , looking into some pleasant little gardens .
There was a table drawn up before the window , at which was seated reading .
When he saw , he pushed the book away from him , and told him to come near the table , and sit down .
complied ; marvelling where the people could be found to read such a great number of books as seemed to be written to make the world wiser .
Which is still a marvel to more experienced people than , every day of their lives .
'There are a good many books , are there not , my boy ? '
said , observing the curiosity with which surveyed the shelves that reached from the floor to the ceiling .
' A great number , sir , ' replied .
' I never saw so many . '
'You shall read them , if you behave well , ' said the old gentleman kindly ; 'and you will like that , better than looking at the outsides , -- that is , some cases ; because there are books of which the backs and covers are by far the best parts . '
' I suppose they are those heavy ones , sir , ' said , pointing to some large quartos , with a good deal of gilding about the binding .
'Not always those , ' said the old gentleman , patting on the head , and smiling as he did so ; 'there are other equally heavy ones , though of a much smaller size .
How should you like to grow up a clever man , and write books , eh ? '
' I think I would rather read them , sir , ' replied .
would n't you like to be a book-writer ? '
Oliver considered a little while ; and at last said , he should think it would be a much better thing to be a book-seller ; upon which the old gentleman laughed heartily , and declared he had said a very good thing .
Which felt glad to have done , though he by no means knew what it was .
'Well , well , ' said the old gentleman , composing his features .
We wo n't make an author of you , while there 's an honest trade to be learnt , or brick-making to turn to . '
'Thank you , sir , ' said .
At the earnest manner of his reply , the old gentleman laughed again ; and said something about a curious instinct , which , not understanding , paid no very great attention to .
'Now , ' said , speaking if possible in a kinder , but at the same time in a much more serious manner , than had ever known him assume yet , ' I want you to pay great attention , my boy , to what I am going to say .
I shall talk to you without any reserve ; because I am sure you are well able to understand me , as many older persons would be . '
'Oh , do n't tell you are going to send me away , sir , pray ! '
exclaimed , alarmed at the serious tone of the old gentleman 's commencement !
'Do n't turn me out of doors to wander in the streets again .
Let me stay here , and be a servant .
Do n't send me back to the wretched place I came from .
Have mercy upon a poor boy , sir ! '
'My dear child , ' said the old gentleman , moved by the warmth of 's sudden appeal ; 'you need not be afraid of my deserting you , unless you give me cause . '
' I never , never will , sir , ' interposed .
' I hope not , ' rejoined the old gentleman .
' I do not think you ever will .
I have been deceived , before , in the objects whom I have endeavoured to benefit ; but I feel strongly disposed to trust you , nevertheless ; and I am more interested in your behalf than I can well account for , even to myself .
The persons on whom I have bestowed my dearest love , lie deep in their graves ; but , although the happiness and delight of my life lie buried there too , I have not made a coffin of my heart , and sealed it up , forever , on my best affections .
affliction has but strengthened and refined them . '
As the old gentleman said this in a low voice : more to himself than to his companion : and as he remained silent for a short time afterwards : sat quite still .
said the old gentleman at length , in a more cheerful tone , ' I only say this , because you have a young heart ; and knowing that I have suffered great pain and sorrow , you will be more careful , perhaps , not to wound me again .
You say you are an orphan , without a friend in the world ; all the inquiries I have been able to make , confirm the statement .
Let me hear your story ; where you come from ; who brought you up ; and how you got into the company in which I found you .
Speak the truth , and you shall not be friendless while I live . '
's sobs checked his utterance for some minutes ; when he was on the point of beginning to relate how he had been brought up at the farm , and carried to the workhouse by , a peculiarly impatient little double-knock was heard at the street-door : and the servant , running upstairs , announced .
'Yes , sir , ' replied the servant .
'He asked if there were any muffins in the house ; and , when I told him yes , he said he had come to tea . '
smiled ; and , turning to , said that was an old friend of his , and he must not mind his being a little rough in his manners ; for he was a worthy creature at bottom , as he had reason to know .
'Shall I go downstairs , sir ? '
'No , ' replied , ' I would rather you remained here . '
At this moment , there walked into the room : supporting himself by a thick stick : a stout old gentleman , rather lame in one leg , who was dressed in a blue coat , striped waistcoat , nankeen breeches and gaiters , and a broad-brimmed white hat , with the sides turned up with green .
A very small-plaited shirt frill stuck out from his waistcoat ; and a very long steel watch-chain , with nothing but a key at the end , dangled loosely below it .
The ends of his white neckerchief were twisted into a ball about the size of an orange ; the variety of shapes into which his countenance was twisted , defy description .
He had a manner of screwing his head on one side when he spoke ; and of looking out of the corners of his eyes at the same time : which irresistibly reminded the beholder of a parrot .
In this attitude , he fixed himself , the moment he made his appearance ; and , holding out a small piece of orange-peel at arm 's length , exclaimed , in a growling , discontented voice .
Is n't it a most wonderful and extraordinary thing that I ca n't call at a man 's house but I find a piece of this poor surgeon 's friend on the staircase ?
I 've been lamed with orange-peel once , and I know orange-peel will be my death , or I 'll be content to eat my own head , sir ! '
This was the handsome offer with which backed and confirmed nearly every assertion he made ; and it was the more singular in his case , because , even admitting for the sake of argument , the possibility of scientific improvements being brought to that pass which will enable a gentleman to eat his own head in the event of his being so disposed , 's head was such a particularly large one , that the most sanguine man alive could hardly entertain a hope of being able to get through it at a sitting -- to put entirely out of the question , a very thick coating of powder .
' I 'll eat my head , sir , ' repeated , striking his stick upon the ground .
looking at , and retreating a pace or two .
'This is young , whom we were speaking about , ' said .
'You do n't mean to say that 's the boy who had the fever , I hope ? '
said , recoiling a little more .
Stop -- ' continued , abruptly , losing all dread of the fever in his triumph at the discovery ; 'that 's the boy who had the orange !
If that 's not the boy , sir , who had the orange , and threw this bit of peel upon the staircase , I 'll eat my head , and his too . '
'No , no , he has not had one , ' said , laughing .
Put down your hat ; and speak to my young friend . '
' I feel strongly on this subject , sir , ' said the irritable old gentleman , drawing off his gloves .
'There 's always more or less orange-peel on the pavement in our street ; and I _know_ it 's put there by the surgeon 's boy at the corner .
A young woman stumbled over a bit last night , and fell against my garden-railings ; directly she got up I saw her look towards his infernal red lamp with the pantomime-light .
`` Do n't go to him , '' I called out of the window , `` he 's an assassin !
If he is not -- ' Here the irascible old gentleman gave a great knock on the ground with his stick ; which was always understood , by his friends , to imply the customary offer , whenever it was not expressed in words .
Then , still keeping his stick in his hand , he sat down ; and , opening a double eye-glass , which he wore attached to a broad black riband , took a view of : who , seeing that he was the object of inspection , coloured , and bowed again .
'That 's the boy , is it ? '
said , at length .
'That 's the boy , ' replied .
' A great deal better , thank you , sir , ' replied .
, seeming to apprehend that his singular friend was about to say something disagreeable , asked to step downstairs and tell Mrs. Bedwin they were ready for tea ; which , as he did not half like the visitor 's manner , he was very happy to do .
'He is a nice-looking boy , is he not ? '
' I do n't know , ' replied , pettishly .
I never see any difference in boys .
I only knew two sort of boys .
boys , and beef-faced boys . '
I know a friend who has a beef-faced boy ; a fine boy , they call him ; with a round head , and red cheeks , and glaring eyes ; a horrid boy ; with a body and limbs that appear to be swelling out of the seams of his blue clothes ; with the voice of a pilot , and the appetite of a wolf .
'Come , ' said , 'these are not the characteristics of young ; so he need n't excite your wrath . '
'They are not , ' replied .
Here , coughed impatiently ; which appeared to afford the most exquisite delight .
'He may have worse , I say , ' repeated .
'Where does he come from !
He has had a fever .
Fevers are not peculiar to good people ; are they ?
people have fevers sometimes ; have n't they , eh ?
I knew a man who was hung in for murdering his master .
He had had a fever six times ; he was n't recommended to mercy on that account .
Now , the fact was , that in the inmost recesses of his own heart , was strongly disposed to admit that 's appearance and manner were unusually prepossessing ; but he had a strong appetite for contradiction , sharpened on this occasion by the finding of the orange-peel ; and , inwardly determining that no man should dictate to him whether a boy was well-looking or not , he had resolved , from the first , to oppose his friend .
When admitted that on no one point of inquiry could he yet return a satisfactory answer ; and that he had postponed any investigation into 's previous history until he thought the boy was strong enough to hear it ; chuckled maliciously .
And he demanded , with a sneer , whether the housekeeper was in the habit of counting the plate at night ; because if she did n't find a table-spoon or two missing some sunshiny morning , why , he would be content to -- and so forth .
All this , , although himself somewhat of an impetuous gentleman : knowing his friend 's peculiarities , bore with great good humour ; as , at tea , was graciously pleased to express his entire approval of the muffins , matters went on very smoothly ; and , who made one of the party , began to feel more at his ease than he had yet done in the fierce old gentleman 's presence .
'And when are you going to hear a full , true , and particular account of the life and adventures of ? '
asked of , at the conclusion of the meal ; looking sideways at , as he resumed his subject .
'To-morrow morning , ' replied .
' I would rather he was alone with me at the time .
Come up to me to-morrow morning at ten o'clock , my dear . '
He answered with some hesitation , because he was confused by 's looking so hard at him .
' I 'll tell you what , ' whispered that gentleman to ; 'he wo n't come up to you to-morrow morning .
He is deceiving you , my good friend . '
' I 'll swear he is not , ' replied , warmly .
'If he is not , ' said , ' I 'll -- ' and down went the stick .
' I 'll answer for that boy 's truth with my life ! '
said , knocking the table .
'And I for his falsehood with my head ! '
rejoined , knocking the table also .
'We shall see , ' said , checking his rising anger .
'We will , ' replied , with a provoking smile ; 'we will . '
As fate would have it , Mrs. chanced to bring in , at this moment , a small parcel of books , which had that morning purchased of the identical bookstall-keeper , who has already figured in this history ; having laid them on the table , she prepared to leave the room .
said ; 'there is something to go back . '
'He has gone , sir , ' replied Mrs. Bedwin .
'Call after him , ' said ; 'it 's particular .
He is a poor man , and they are not paid for .
There are some books to be taken back , too . '
ran one way ; and the girl ran another ; and Mrs. stood on the step and screamed for the boy ; but there was no boy in sight .
and the girl returned , in a breathless state , to report that there were no tidings of him .
'Dear me , I am very sorry for that , ' exclaimed ; ' I particularly wished those books to be returned to-night . '
'Send with them , ' said , with an ironical smile ; 'he will be sure to deliver them safely , you know . '
'Yes ; do let me take them , if you please , sir , ' said .
' I 'll run all the way , sir . '
The old gentleman was just going to say that should not go out on any account ; when a most malicious cough from determined him that he should ; and that , by his prompt discharge of the commission , he should prove to him the injustice of his suspicions : on this head at least : at once .
'You _shall_ go , my dear , ' said the old gentleman .
'The books are on a chair by my table .
, delighted to be of use , brought down the books under his arm in a great bustle ; and waited , cap in hand , to hear what message he was to take .
'You are to say , ' said , glancing steadily at ; 'you are to say that you have brought those books back ; and that you have come to pay the four pound ten I owe him .
This is a five-pound note , so you will have to bring me back , ten shillings change . '
' I wo n't be ten minutes , sir , ' said , eagerly .
Having buttoned up the bank-note in his jacket pocket , and placed the books carefully under his arm , he made a respectful bow , and left the room .
Mrs. followed him to the street-door , giving him many directions about the nearest way , and the name of the bookseller , and the name of the street : all of which said he clearly understood .
Having superadded many injunctions to be sure and not take cold , the old lady at length permitted him to depart .
said the old lady , looking after him .
' I ca n't bear , somehow , to let him go out of my sight . '
At this moment , looked gaily round , and nodded before he turned the corner .
The old lady smilingly returned his salutation , and , closing the door , went back to her own room .
'Let me see ; he 'll be back in twenty minutes , at the longest , ' said , pulling out his watch , and placing it on the table .
'It will be dark by that time . '
you really expect him to come back , do you ? '
The spirit of contradiction was strong in 's breast , at the moment ; and it was rendered stronger by his friend 's confident smile .
'No , ' he said , smiting the table with his fist , ' I do not .
The boy has a new suit of clothes on his back , a set of valuable books under his arm , and a five-pound note in his pocket .
He 'll join his old friends the thieves , and laugh at you .
If ever that boy returns to this house , sir , I 'll eat my head . '
With these words he drew his chair closer to the table ; and there the two friends sat , in silent expectation , with the watch between them .
It is worthy of remark , as illustrating the importance we attach to our own judgments , and the pride with which we put forth our most rash and hasty conclusions , that , although was not by any means a bad-hearted man , and though he would have been unfeignedly sorry to see his respected friend duped and deceived , he really did most earnestly and strongly hope at that moment , that might not come back .
It grew so dark , that the figures on the dial-plate were scarcely discernible ; but there the two old gentlemen continued to sit , in silence , with the watch between them .
In the obscure parlour of a low public-house , in the filthiest part of ; a dark and gloomy den , where a flaring gas-light burnt all day in the winter-time ; and where no ray of sun ever shone in the summer : there sat , brooding over a little pewter measure and a small glass , strongly impregnated with the smell of liquor , a man in a velveteen coat , drab shorts , half-boots and stockings , whom even by that dim light no experienced agent of the police would have hesitated to recognise as .
At his feet , sat a white-coated , red-eyed dog ; who occupied himself , alternately , in winking at his master with both eyes at the same time ; and in licking a large , fresh cut on one side of his mouth , which appeared to be the result of some recent conflict .
said , suddenly breaking silence .
Whether his meditations were so intense as to be disturbed by the dog 's winking , or whether his feelings were so wrought upon by his reflections that they required all the relief derivable from kicking an unoffending animal to allay them , is matter for argument and consideration .
Whatever was the cause , the effect was a kick and a curse , bestowed upon the dog simultaneously .
Dogs are not generally apt to revenge injuries inflicted upon them by their masters ; but 's dog , having faults of temper in common with his owner , and labouring , perhaps , at this moment , under a powerful sense of injury , made no more ado but at once fixed his teeth in one of the half-boots .
Having given in a hearty shake , he retired , growling , under a form ; just escaping the pewter measure which levelled at his head .
said , seizing the poker in one hand , and deliberately opening with the other a large clasp-knife , which he drew from his pocket .
'Come here , you born devil !
The dog no doubt heard ; because spoke in the very harshest key of a very harsh voice ; but , appearing to entertain some unaccountable objection to having his throat cut , he remained where he was , and growled more fiercely than before : at the same time grasping the end of the poker between his teeth , and biting at it like a wild beast .
This resistance only infuriated the more ; who , dropping on his knees , began to assail the animal most furiously .
The dog jumped from right to left , and from left to right ; snapping , growling , and barking ; the man thrust and swore , and struck and blasphemed ; and the struggle was reaching a most critical point for one or other ; when , the door suddenly opening , the dog darted out : leaving with the poker and the clasp-knife in his hands .
There must always be two parties to a quarrel , says the old adage .
, being disappointed of the dog 's participation , at once transferred his share in the quarrel to the new comer .
'What the devil do you come in between me and my dog for ? '
said , with a fierce gesture .
' I did n't know , my dear , I did n't know , ' replied , humbly ; for the Jew was the new comer .
'Did n't know , you white-livered thief ! '
'Could n't you hear the noise ? '
'Not a sound of it , as I 'm a living man , , ' replied the Jew .
You hear nothing , you do n't , ' retorted with a fierce sneer .
'Sneaking in and out , so as nobody hears how you come or go !
I wish you had been the dog , , half a minute ago . '
inquired the Jew with a forced smile .
'Cause the government , as cares for the lives of such men as you , as have n't half the pluck of curs , lets a man kill a dog how he likes , ' replied , shutting up the knife with a very expressive look ; 'that 's why . '
The Jew rubbed his hands ; and , sitting down at the table , affected to laugh at the pleasantry of his friend .
He was obviously very ill at ease , however .
'Grin away , ' said , replacing the poker , and surveying him with savage contempt ; 'grin away .
You 'll never have the laugh at me , though , unless it 's behind a nightcap .
I 've got the upper hand over you , ; and , d -- me , I 'll keep it .
If I go , you go ; so take care of me . '
'Well , well , my dear , ' said the Jew , ' I know all that ; we -- we -- have a mutual interest , , -- a mutual interest . '
'Humph , ' said , as if he thought the interest lay rather more on the 's side than on his .
'Well , what have you got to say to me ? '
'It 's all passed safe through the melting-pot , ' replied , 'and this is your share .
It 's rather more than it ought to be , my dear ; but as I know you 'll do me a good turn another time , and -- ' 'Stow that gammon , ' interposed the robber , impatiently .
'Yes , yes , ; give me time , give me time , ' replied the Jew , soothingly .
As he spoke , he drew forth an old cotton handkerchief from his breast ; and untying a large knot in one corner , produced a small brown-paper packet .
, snatching it from him , hastily opened it ; and proceeded to count the sovereigns it contained .
'This is all , is it ? '
'You have n't opened the parcel and swallowed one or two as you come along , have you ? '
'Do n't put on an injured look at the question ; you 've done it many a time .
These words , in plain , conveyed an injunction to ring the bell .
It was answered by another Jew : younger than Fagin , but nearly as vile and repulsive in appearance .
merely pointed to the empty measure .
The Jew , perfectly understanding the hint , retired to fill it : previously exchanging a remarkable look with , who raised his eyes for an instant , as if in expectation of it , and shook his head in reply ; so slightly that the action would have been almost imperceptible to an observant third person .
It was lost upon , who was stooping at the moment to tie the boot-lace which the dog had torn .
Possibly , if he had observed the brief interchange of signals , he might have thought that it boded no good to him .
inquired ; speaking , now that that was looking on , without raising his eyes from the ground .
'Dot a shoul , ' replied ; whose words : whether they came from the heart or not : made their way through the nose .
inquired Fagin , in a tone of surprise : which perhaps might mean that was at liberty to tell the truth .
'Dobody but , ' replied .
Strike me blind , if I do n't honour that 'ere girl , for her native talents . '
'She 's bid havid a plate of boiled beef id the bar , ' replied .
'Send her here , ' said , pouring out a glass of liquor .
looked timidly at , as if for permission ; the Jew remaining silent , and not lifting his eyes from the ground , he retired ; and presently returned , ushering in ; who was decorated with the bonnet , apron , basket , and street-door key , complete .
'You are on the scent , are you , ? '
inquired , proffering the glass .
'Yes , I am , , ' replied the young lady , disposing of its contents ; 'and tired enough of it I am , too .
The young brat 's been ill and confined to the crib ; and -- ' 'Ah , , dear ! '
Now , whether a peculiar contraction of the 's red eye-brows , and a half closing of his deeply-set eyes , warned that she was disposed to be too communicative , is not a matter of much importance .
The fact is all we need care for here ; and the fact is , that she suddenly checked herself , and with several gracious smiles upon , turned the conversation to other matters .
In about ten minutes ' time , was seized with a fit of coughing ; upon which pulled her shawl over her shoulders , and declared it was time to go .
, finding that he was walking a short part of her way himself , expressed his intention of accompanying her ; they went away together , followed , at a little distant , by the dog , who slunk out of a back-yard as soon as his master was out of sight .
The Jew thrust his head out of the room door when had left it ; looked after him as he walked up the dark passage ; shook his clenched fist ; muttered a deep curse ; and then , with a horrible grin , reseated himself at the table ; where he was soon deeply absorbed in the interesting pages of the Hue-and-Cry .
Meanwhile , , little dreaming that he was within so very short a distance of the merry old gentleman , was on his way to the book-stall .
When he got into , he accidently turned down a by-street which was not exactly in his way ; but not discovering his mistake until he had got half-way down it , and knowing it must lead in the right direction , he did not think it worth while to turn back ; and so marched on , as quickly as he could , with the books under his arm .
He was walking along , thinking how happy and contented he ought to feel ; and how much he would give for only one look at poor little , who , starved and beaten , might be weeping bitterly at that very moment ; when he was startled by a young woman screaming out very loud .
And he had hardly looked up , to see what the matter was , when he was stopped by having a pair of arms thrown tight round his neck .
What are you stopping me for ? '
The only reply to this , was a great number of loud lamentations from the young woman who had embraced him ; and who had a little basket and a street-door key in her hand .
said the young woman , ' I have found him !
Oh you naughty boy , to make me suffer such distress on your account !
gracious goodness heavins , I 've found him ! '
With these incoherent exclamations , the young woman burst into another fit of crying , and got so dreadfully hysterical , that a couple of women who came up at the moment asked a butcher 's boy with a shiny head of hair anointed with suet , who was also looking on , whether he did n't think he had better run for the doctor .
To which , the butcher 's boy : who appeared of a lounging , not to say indolent disposition : replied , that he thought not .
'Oh , no , no , never mind , ' said the young woman , grasping 's hand ; ' I 'm better now .
home directly , you cruel boy !
'Oh , ma'am , ' replied the young woman , 'he ran away , near a month ago , from his parents , who are hard-working and respectable people ; and went and joined a set of thieves and bad characters ; and almost broke his mother 's heart . '
'Go home , do , you little brute , ' said the other .
' I am not , ' replied , greatly alarmed .
I have n't any sister , or father and mother either .
I 'm an orphan ; I live at . '
'Only hear him , how he braves it out ! '
exclaimed ; who now saw her face for the first time ; and started back , in irrepressible astonishment .
'You see he knows me ! '
cried , appealing to the bystanders .
Make him come home , there 's good people , or he 'll kill his dear mother and father , and break my heart ! '
said a man , bursting out of a beer-shop , with a white dog at his heels ; 'young Oliver !
home to your poor mother , you young dog !
' I do n't belong to them .
cried , struggling in the man 's powerful grasp .
'Yes ; I 'll help you , you young rascal !
You 've been a stealing 'em , have you ?
With these words , the man tore the volumes from his grasp , and struck him on the head .
cried a looker-on , from a garret-window .
'That 's the only way of bringing him to his senses ! '
cried a sleepy-faced carpenter , casting an approving look at the garret-window .
'And he shall have it , too ! '
rejoined the man , administering another blow , and seizing by the collar .
'Come on , you young villain !
Here , Bull's-eye , mind him , boy !
with recent illness ; stupified by the blows and the suddenness of the attack ; terrified by the fierce growling of the dog , and the brutality of the man ; overpowered by the conviction of the bystanders that he really was the hardened little wretch he was described to be ; what could one poor child do !
had set in ; it was a low neighborhood ; no help was near ; resistance was useless .
In another moment he was dragged into a labyrinth of dark narrow courts , and was forced along them at a pace which rendered the few cries he dared to give utterance to , unintelligible .
It was of little moment , indeed , whether they were intelligible or no ; for there was nobody to care for them , had they been ever so plain .
* * * * * The gas-lamps were lighted ; Mrs. was waiting anxiously at the open door ; the servant had run up the street twenty times to see if there were any traces of ; and still the two old gentlemen sat , perseveringly , in the dark parlour , with the watch between them .
The narrow streets and courts , at length , terminated in a large open space ; scattered about which , were pens for beasts , and other indications of a cattle-market .
slackened his pace when they reached this spot : the girl being quite unable to support any longer , the rapid rate at which they had hitherto walked .
Turning to , he roughly commanded him to take hold of 's hand .
growled , as hesitated , and looked round .
They were in a dark corner , quite out of the track of passengers .
saw , but too plainly , that resistance would be of no avail .
He held out his hand , which clasped tight in hers .
'Give me the other , ' said , seizing 's unoccupied hand .
The dog looked up , and growled .
said , putting his other hand to 's throat ; 'if he speaks ever so soft a word , hold him !
The dog growled again ; and licking his lips , eyed as if he were anxious to attach himself to his windpipe without delay .
'He 's as willing as a , strike me blind if he is n't ! '
said , regarding the animal with a kind of grim and ferocious approval .
'Now , you know what you 've got to expect , master , so call away as quick as you like ; the dog will soon stop that game .
Bull's-eye wagged his tail in acknowledgment of this unusually endearing form of speech ; and , giving vent to another admonitory growl for the benefit of , led the way onward .
It was that they were crossing , although it might have been , for anything knew to the contrary .
The night was dark and foggy .
The lights in the shops could scarecely struggle through the heavy mist , which thickened every moment and shrouded the streets and houses in gloom ; rendering the strange place still stranger in 's eyes ; and making his uncertainty the more dismal and depressing .
They had hurried on a few paces , when a deep church-bell struck the hour .
With its first stroke , his two conductors stopped , and turned their heads in the direction whence the sound proceeded .
'Eight o ' clock , , ' said , when the bell ceased .
'What 's the good of telling me that ; I can hear it , ca n't I ! '
' I wonder whether THEY can hear it , ' said .
'Of course they can , ' replied .
'It was time when I was shopped ; and there war n't a penny trumpet in the fair , as I could n't hear the squeaking on .
Arter I was locked up for the night , the row and din outside made the thundering old jail so silent , that I could almost have beat my brains out against the iron plates of the door . '
said , who still had her face turned towards the quarter in which the bell had sounded .
'Oh , , such fine young chaps as them ! '
'Yes ; that 's all you women think of , ' answered .
Well , they 're as good as dead , so it do n't much matter . '
With this consolation , appeared to repress a rising tendency to jealousy , and , clasping 's wrist more firmly , told him to step out again .
said the girl : ' I would n't hurry by , if it was you that was coming out to be hung , the next time eight o'clock struck , .
I 'd walk round and round the place till I dropped , if the snow was on the ground , and I had n't a shawl to cover me . '
'And what good would that do ? '
inquired the unsentimental .
'Unless you could pitch over a file and twenty yards of good stout rope , you might as well be walking fifty mile off , or not walking at all , for all the good it would do me .
Come on , and do n't stand preaching there . '
The girl burst into a laugh ; drew her shawl more closely round her ; and they walked away .
But felt her hand tremble , and , looking up in her face as they passed a gas-lamp , saw that it had turned a deadly white .
They walked on , by little-frequented and dirty ways , for a full half-hour : meeting very few people , and those appearing from their looks to hold much the same position in society as himself .
At length they turned into a very filthy narrow street , nearly full of old-clothes shops ; the dog running forward , as if conscious that there was no further occasion for his keeping on guard , stopped before the door of a shop that was closed and apparently untenanted ; the house was in a ruinous condition , and on the door was nailed a board , intimating that it was to let : which looked as if it had hung there for many years .
'All right , ' cried , glancing cautiously about .
stooped below the shutters , and heard the sound of a bell .
They crossed to the opposite side of the street , and stood for a few moments under a lamp .
A noise , as if a sash window were gently raised , was heard ; and soon afterwards the door softly opened .
then seized the terrified boy by the collar with very little ceremony ; and all three were quickly inside the house .
The passage was perfectly dark .
They waited , while the person who had let them in , chained and barred the door .
'No , ' replied a voice , which thought he had heard before .
'Is the old 'un here ? '
'Yes , ' replied the voice , 'and precious down in the mouth he has been .
Wo n't he be glad to see you ?
The style of this reply , as well as the voice which delivered it , seemed familiar to 's ears : but it was impossible to distinguish even the form of the speaker in the darkness .
'Let 's have a glim , ' said , 'or we shall go breaking our necks , or treading on the dog .
Look after your legs if you do ! '
'Stand still a moment , and I 'll get you one , ' replied the voice .
The receding footsteps of the speaker were heard ; and , in another minute , the form of , otherwise the , appeared .
He bore in his right hand a tallow candle stuck in the end of a cleft stick .
The young gentleman did not stop to bestow any other mark of recognition upon than a humourous grin ; but , turning away , beckoned the visitors to follow him down a flight of stairs .
They crossed an empty kitchen ; and , opening the door of a low earthy-smelling room , which seemed to have been built in a small back-yard , were received with a shout of laughter .
'Oh , my wig , my wig ! '
cried , from whose lungs the laughter had proceeded : 'here he is !
oh , cry , here he is !
Oh , , look at him !
, do look at him !
I ca n't bear it ; it is such a jolly game , I cant ' bear it .
Hold me , somebody , while I laugh it out . '
With this irrepressible ebullition of mirth , laid himself flat on the floor : and kicked convulsively for five minutes , in an ectasy of facetious joy .
Then jumping to his feet , he snatched the cleft stick from the ; and , advancing to , viewed him round and round ; while the Jew , taking off his nightcap , made a great number of low bows to the bewildered boy .
The , meantime , who was of a rather saturnine disposition , and seldom gave way to merriment when it interfered with business , rifled 's pockets with steady assiduity .
'Look at his togs , ! '
said , putting the light so close to his new jacket as nearly to set him on fire .
cloth , and the heavy swell cut !
Oh , my eye , what a game !
Nothing but a gentleman , ! '
'Delighted to see you looking so well , my dear , ' said the Jew , bowing with mock humility .
'The shall give you another suit , my dear , for fear you should spoil that Sunday one .
Why did n't you write , my dear , and say you were coming ?
We 'd have got something warm for supper . '
At his , roared again : so loud , that Fagin himself relaxed , and even the smiled ; but as the drew forth the five-pound note at that instant , it is doubtful whether the sally of the discovery awakened his merriment .
inquired , stepping forward as the Jew seized the note .
'No , no , my dear , ' said the Jew .
You shall have the books . '
said , putting on his hat with a determined air ; 'mine and 's that is ; I 'll take the boy back again . '
Oliver started too , though from a very different cause ; for he hoped that the dispute might really end in his being taken back .
'This is hardly fair , ; hardly fair , is it , ? '
'Fair , or not fair , ' retorted , 'hand over , I tell you !
Do you think and me has got nothing else to do with our precious time but to spend it in scouting arter , and kidnapping , every young boy as gets grabbed through you ?
Give it here , you avaricious old skeleton , give it here ! '
With this gentle remonstrance , plucked the note from between the 's finger and thumb ; and looking the old man coolly in the face , folded it up small , and tied it in his neckerchief .
'That 's for our share of the trouble , ' said ; 'and not half enough , neither .
You may keep the books , if you 're fond of reading .
If you ai n't , sell 'em . '
'They 're very pretty , ' said Bates : who , with sundry grimaces , had been affecting to read one of the volumes in question ; 'beautiful writing , is n't is , ? '
At sight of the dismayed look with which regarded his tormentors , , who was blessed with a lively sense of the ludicrous , fell into another ectasy , more boisterous than the first .
'They belong to the old gentleman , ' said , wringing his hands ; 'to the good , kind , old gentleman who took me into his house , and had me nursed , when I was near dying of the fever .
Oh , pray send them back ; send him back the books and money .
Keep me here all my life long ; but pray , pray send them back .
He 'll think I stole them ; the old lady : all of them who were so kind to me : will think I stole them .
Oh , do have mercy upon me , and send them back ! '
With these words , which were uttered with all the energy of passionate grief , fell upon his knees at the 's feet ; and beat his hands together , in perfect desperation .
'The boy 's right , ' remarked , looking covertly round , and knitting his shaggy eyebrows into a hard knot .
'You 're right , , you 're right ; they WILL think you have stolen 'em .
chuckled the Jew , rubbing his hands , 'it could n't have happened better , if we had chosen our time ! '
'Of course it could n't , ' replied ; ' I know 'd that , directly I see him coming through , with the books under his arm .
They 're soft-hearted psalm-singers , or they would n't have taken him in at all ; and they 'll ask no questions after him , fear they should be obliged to prosecute , and so get him lagged .
had looked from one to the other , while these words were being spoken , as if he were bewildered , and could scarecely understand what passed ; but when concluded , he jumped suddenly to his feet , and tore wildly from the room : uttering shrieks for help , which made the bare old house echo to the roof .
'Keep back the dog , ! '
cried , springing before the door , and closing it , as the Jew and his two pupils darted out in pursuit .
'Keep back the dog ; he 'll tear the boy to pieces . '
cried , struggling to disengage himself from the girl 's grasp .
'Stand off from me , or I 'll split your head against the wall . '
' I do n't care for that , , I do n't care for that , ' screamed the girl , struggling violently with the man , 'the child sha n't be torn down by the dog , unless you kill me first . '
said , setting his teeth .
' I 'll soon do that , if you do n't keep off . '
The housebreaker flung the girl from him to the further end of the room , just as the Jew and the two boys returned , dragging among them .
'The girl 's gone mad , I think , ' replied , savagely .
'No , she has n't , ' said , pale and breathless from the scuffle ; 'no , she has n't , ; do n't think it . '
'Then keep quiet , will you ? '
said the Jew , with a threatening look .
'No , I wo n't do that , neither , ' replied , speaking very loud .
What do you think of that ? '
was sufficiently well acquainted with the manners and customs of that particular species of humanity to which belonged , to feel tolerably certain that it would be rather unsafe to prolong any conversation with her , at present .
With the view of diverting the attention of the company , he turned to .
'So you wanted to get away , my dear , did you ? '
said the Jew , taking up a jagged and knotted club which law in a corner of the fireplace ; 'eh ? '
But he watched the 's motions , and breathed quickly .
'Wanted to get assistance ; called for the police ; did you ? '
sneered the Jew , catching the boy by the arm .
'We 'll cure you of that , my young master . '
The Jew inflicted a smart blow on 's shoulders with the club ; and was raising it for a second , when the girl , rushing forward , wrested it from his hand .
She flung it into the fire , with a force that brought some of the glowing coals whirling out into the room .
' I wo n't stand by and see it done , , ' cried the girl .
'You 've got the boy , and what more would you have ? -- Let him be -- let him be -- or I shall put that mark on some of you , that will bring me to the gallows before my time . '
The girl stamped her foot violently on the floor as she vented this threat ; and with her lips compressed , and her hands clenched , looked alternately at the Jew and the other robber : her face quite colourless from the passion of rage into which she had gradually worked herself .
said the Jew , in a soothing tone ; after a pause , during which he and had stared at one another in a disconcerted manner ; 'you , -- you 're more clever than ever to-night .
my dear , you are acting beautifully . '
'Take care I do n't overdo it .
You will be the worse for it , , if I do ; and so I tell you in good time to keep clear of me . '
There is something about a roused woman : especially if she add to all her other strong passions , the fierce impulses of recklessness and despair ; which few men like to provoke .
The saw that it would be hopeless to affect any further mistake regarding the reality of 's rage ; and , shrinking involuntarily back a few paces , cast a glance , half imploring and half cowardly , at : as if to hint that he was the fittest person to pursue the dialogue .
, thus mutely appealed to ; and possibly feeling his personal pride and influence interested in the immediate reduction of to reason ; gave utterance to about a couple of score of curses and threats , the rapid production of which reflected great credit on the fertility of his invention .
As they produced no visible effect on the object against whom they were discharged , however , he resorted to more tangible arguments .
'What do you mean by this ? '
said ; backing the inquiry with a very common imprecation concerning the most beautiful of human features : which , if it were heard above , only once out of every fifty thousand times that it is uttered below , would render blindness as common a disorder as measles : 'what do you mean by it ?
Do you know who you are , and what you are ? '
'Oh , yes , I know all about it , ' replied the girl , laughing hysterically ; and shaking her head from side to side , with a poor assumption of indifference .
'Well , then , keep quiet , ' rejoined , with a growl like that he was accustomed to use when addressing his dog , 'or I 'll quiet you for a good long time to come . '
The girl laughed again : even less composedly than before ; and , darting a hasty look at , turned her face aside , and bit her lip till the blood came .
'You 're a nice one , ' added , as he surveyed her with a contemptuous air , 'to take up the humane and gen -- teel side !
A pretty subject for the child , as you call him , to make a friend of ! '
'God Almighty help me , I am ! '
cried the girl passionately ; 'and I wish I had been struck dead in the street , or had changed places with them we passed so near to-night , before I had lent a hand in bringing him here .
He 's a thief , a liar , a devil , all that 's bad , from this night forth .
Is n't that enough for the old wretch , without blows ? '
'Come , come , , ' said the Jew appealing to him in a remonstratory tone , and motioning towards the boys , who were eagerly attentive to all that passed ; 'we must have civil words ; civil words , . '
cried the girl , whose passion was frightful to see .
Yes , you deserve 'em from me .
I thieved for you when I was a child not half as old as this ! '
' I have been in the same trade , and in the same service , for twelve years since .
'Well , well , ' replied the Jew , with an attempt at pacification ; 'and , if you have , it 's your living ! '
returned the girl ; not speaking , but pouring out the words in one continuous and vehement scream .
'It is my living ; and the cold , wet , dirty streets are my home ; and you 're the wretch that drove me to them long ago , and that 'll keep me there , day and night , day and night , till I die ! '
' I shall do you a mischief ! '
interposed the Jew , goaded by these reproaches ; ' a mischief worse than that , if you say much more ! '
The girl said nothing more ; but , tearing her hair and dress in a transport of passion , made such a rush at the Jew as would probably have left signal marks of her revenge upon him , had not her wrists been seized by at the right moment ; upon which , she made a few ineffectual struggles , and fainted .
'She 's all right now , ' said , laying her down in a corner .
'She 's uncommon strong in the arms , when she 's up in this way . '
The Jew wiped his forehead : and smiled , as if it were a relief to have the disturbance over ; but neither he , nor , nor the dog , nor the boys , seemed to consider it in any other light than a common occurance incidental to business .
'It 's the worst of having to do with women , ' said the Jew , replacing his club ; 'but they 're clever , and we ca n't get on , in our line , without 'em .
, show to bed . '
' I suppose he 'd better not wear his best clothes tomorrow , , had he ? '
'Certainly not , ' replied the Jew , reciprocating the grin with which put the question .
, apparently much delighted with his commission , took the cleft stick : and led into an adjacent kitchen , where there were two or three of the beds on which he had slept before ; and here , with many uncontrollable bursts of laughter , he produced the identical old suit of clothes which had so much congratulated himself upon leaving off at 's ; and the accidental display of which , to , by the Jew who purchased them , had been the very first clue received , of his whereabout .
'Put off the smart ones , ' said , 'and I 'll give 'em to Fagin to take care of .
Bates rolling up the new clothes under his arm , departed from the room , leaving in the dark , and locking the door behind him .
The noise of 's laughter , and the voice of , who opportunely arrived to throw water over her friend , and perform other feminine offices for the promotion of her recovery , might have kept many people awake under more happy circumstances than those in which was placed .
But he was sick and weary ; and he soon fell sound asleep .
It is the custom on the stage , in all good murderous melodramas , to present the tragic and the comic scenes , in as regular alternation , as the layers of red and white in a side of streaky bacon .
The hero sinks upon his straw bed , weighed down by fetters and misfortunes ; in the next scene , his faithful but unconscious squire regales the audience with a comic song .
We behold , with throbbing bosoms , the heroine in the grasp of a proud and ruthless baron : her virtue and her life alike in danger , drawing forth her dagger to preserve the one at the cost of the other ; and just as our expectations are wrought up to the highest pitch , a whistle is heard , and we are straightway transported to the great hall of the castle ; where a grey-headed seneschal sings a funny chorus with a funnier body of vassals , who are free of all sorts of places , from church vaults to palaces , and roam about in company , carolling perpetually .
Such changes appear absurd ; but they are not so unnatural as they would seem at first sight .
The transitions in real life from well-spread boards to death-beds , and from mourning-weeds to holiday garments , are not a whit less startling ; only , there , we are busy actors , instead of passive lookers-on , which makes a vast difference .
The actors in the mimic life of the theatre , are blind to violent transitions and abrupt impulses of passion or feeling , which , presented before the eyes of mere spectators , are at once condemned as outrageous and preposterous .
As sudden shiftings of the scene , and rapid changes of time and place , are not only sanctioned in books by long usage , but are by many considered as the great art of authorship : an author 's skill in his craft being , by such critics , chiefly estimated with relation to the dilemmas in which he leaves his characters at the end of every chapter : this brief introduction to the present one may perhaps be deemed unnecessary .
If so , let it be considered a delicate intimation on the part of the historian that he is going back to the town in which was born ; the reader taking it for granted that there are good and substantial reasons for making the journey , or he would not be invited to proceed upon such an expedition .
emerged at early morning from the workhouse-gate , and walked with portly carriage and commanding steps , up the .
He was in the full bloom and pride of beadlehood ; his cocked hat and coat were dazzling in the morning sun ; he clutched his cane with the vigorous tenacity of health and power .
always carried his head high ; but this morning it was higher than usual .
There was an abstraction in his eye , an elevation in his air , which might have warned an observant stranger that thoughts were passing in the beadle 's mind , too great for utterance .
stopped not to converse with the small shopkeepers and others who spoke to him , deferentially , as he passed along .
He merely returned their salutations with a wave of his hand , and relaxed not in his dignified pace , until he reached the farm where Mrs. Mann tended the infant paupers with parochial care .
said Mrs. Mann , hearing the well-known shaking at the garden-gate .
'If it is n't him at this time in the morning !
, , only think of its being you !
Well , dear me , it IS a pleasure , this is !
Come into the parlour , sir , please . '
The first sentence was addressed to ; and the exclamations of delight were uttered to : as the good lady unlocked the garden-gate : and showed him , with great attention and respect , into the house .
, ' said ; not sitting upon , or dropping himself into a seat , as any common jackanapes would : but letting himself gradually and slowly down into a chair ; 'Mrs .
'Well , and good morning to _you_ , sir , ' replied Mrs. Mann , with many smiles ; 'and hoping you find yourself well , sir ! '
'So-so , Mrs. Mann , ' replied the beadle .
' A porochial life is not a bed of roses , Mrs .
'Ah , that it is n't indeed , , ' rejoined the lady .
And all the infant paupers might have chorussed the rejoinder with great propriety , if they had heard it .
' A porochial life , ma'am , ' continued , striking the table with his cane , 'is a life of worrit , and vexation , and hardihood ; but all public characters , as I may say , must suffer prosecution . '
Mrs. Mann , not very well knowing what the beadle meant , raised her hands with a look of sympathy , and sighed .
You may well sigh , Mrs .
Finding she had done right , Mrs. Mann sighed again : evidently to the satisfaction of the public character : who , repressing a complacent smile by looking sternly at his cocked hat , said , 'Mrs .
, I am going to . '
cried Mrs. Mann , starting back .
'To , ma'am , ' resumed the inflexible beadle , 'by coach .
I and two paupers , Mrs. Mann !
A legal action is a coming on , about a settlement ; and the board has appointed me -- me , Mrs. Mann -- to dispose to the matter before the quarter-sessions at .
And I very much question , ' added , drawing himself up , 'whether the will not find themselves in the wrong box before they have done with me . '
you must n't be too hard upon them , sir , ' said Mrs. Mann , coaxingly .
'The have brought it upon themselves , ma'am , ' replied ; 'and if the find that they come off rather worse than they expected , the have only themselves to thank . '
There was so much determination and depth of purpose about the menacing manner in which delivered himself of these words , that Mrs. Mann appeared quite awed by them .
At length she said , 'You 're going by coach , sir ?
I thought it was always usual to send them paupers in carts . '
'That 's when they 're ill , Mrs. Mann , ' said the beadle .
'We put the sick paupers into open carts in the rainy weather , to prevent their taking cold . '
'The opposition coach contracts for these two ; and takes them cheap , ' said .
'They are both in a very low state , and we find it would come two pound cheaper to move 'em than to bury 'em -- that is , if we can throw 'em upon another parish , which I think we shall be able to do , if they do n't die upon the road to spite us .
When had laughed a little while , his eyes again encountered the cocked hat ; and he became grave .
'We are forgetting business , ma'am , ' said the beadle ; 'here is your porochial stipend for the month . '
produced some silver money rolled up in paper , from his pocket-book ; and requested a receipt : which Mrs. Mann wrote .
'It 's very much blotted , sir , ' said the farmer of infants ; 'but it 's formal enough , I dare say .
Thank you , , sir , I am very much obliged to you , I 'm sure . '
nodded , blandly , in acknowledgment of Mrs. Mann 's curtsey ; and inquired how the children were .
'Bless their dear little hearts ! '
said Mrs. Mann with emotion , 'they 're as well as can be , the dears !
Of course , except the two that died last week .
'Is n't that boy no better ? '
Mrs. Mann shook her head .
'He 's a ill-conditioned , wicious , bad-disposed porochial child that , ' said angrily .
' I 'll bring him to you in one minute , sir , ' replied Mrs. Mann .
After some calling , was discovered .
Having had his face put under the pump , and dried upon Mrs. Mann 's gown , he was led into the awful presence of , the beadle .
The child was pale and thin ; his cheeks were sunken ; and his eyes large and bright .
The scanty parish dress , the livery of his misery , hung loosely on his feeble body ; and his young limbs had wasted away , like those of an old man .
was the little being who stood trembling beneath 's glance ; not daring to lift his eyes from the floor ; and dreading even to hear the beadle 's voice .
'Ca n't you look at the gentleman , you obstinate boy ? '
The child meekly raised his eyes , and encountered those of .
'What 's the matter with you , porochial ? '
inquired , with well-timed jocularity .
'Nothing , sir , ' replied the child faintly .
' I should think not , ' said Mrs. Mann , who had of course laughed very much at 's humour .
'You want for nothing , I 'm sure . '
' I should like -- ' faltered the child .
interposed , ' I suppose you 're going to say that you DO want for something , now ?
Why , you little wretch -- ' 'Stop , Mrs. Mann , stop ! '
said the beadle , raising his hand with a show of authority .
' I should like , ' faltered the child , 'if somebody that can write , would put a few words down for me on a piece of paper , and fold it up and seal it , and keep it for me , after I am laid in the ground . '
'Why , what does the boy mean ? '
exclaimed , on whom the earnest manner and wan aspect of the child had made some impression : accustomed as he was to such things .
'What do you mean , sir ? '
' I should like , ' said the child , 'to leave my dear love to poor ; and to let him know how often I have sat by myself and cried to think of his wandering about in the dark nights with nobody to help him .
And I should like to tell him , ' said the child pressing his small hands together , and speaking with great fervour , 'that I was glad to die when I was very young ; for , perhaps , if I had lived to be a man , and had grown old , my little sister who is in , might forget me , or be unlike me ; and it would be so much happier if we were both children there together . '
surveyed the little speaker , from head to foot , with indescribable astonishment ; and , turning to his companion , said , 'They 're all in one story , Mrs. Mann .
That out-dacious had demogalized them all ! '
' I could n't have believed it , sir ' said , holding up her hands , and looking malignantly at .
' I never see such a hardened little wretch ! '
'This must be stated to the board , Mrs. Mann .
' I hope the gentleman will understand that it is n't my fault , sir ? '
said Mrs. Mann , whimpering pathetically .
'They shall understand that , ma'am ; they shall be acquainted with the true state of the case , ' said .
'There ; take him away , I ca n't bear the sight on him . '
was immediately taken away , and locked up in the coal-cellar .
shortly afterwards took himself off , to prepare for his journey .
At six o'clock next morning , : having exchanged his cocked hat for a round one , and encased his person in a blue great-coat with a cape to it : took his place on the outside of the coach , accompanied by the criminals whose settlement was disputed ; with whom , in due course of time , he arrived in .
He experienced no other crosses on the way , than those which originated in the perverse behaviour of the two paupers , who persisted in shivering , and complaining of the cold , in a manner which , declared , caused his teeth to chatter in his head , and made him feel quite uncomfortable ; although he had a great-coat on .
Having disposed of these evil-minded persons for the night , sat himself down in the house at which the coach stopped ; and took a temperate dinner of steaks , oyster sauce , and porter .
Putting a glass of hot gin-and-water on the chimney-piece , he drew his chair to the fire ; and , with sundry moral reflections on the too-prevalent sin of discontent and complaining , composed himself to read the paper .
The very first paragraph upon which 's eye rested , was the following advertisement .
'Whereas a young boy , named , absconded , or was enticed , on Thursday evening last , from his home , at ; and has not since been heard of .
The above reward will be paid to any person who will give such information as will lead to the discovery of the said , or tend to throw any light upon his previous history , in which the advertiser is , for many reasons , warmly interested . '
And then followed a full description of 's dress , person , appearance , and disappearance : with the name and address of at full length .
opened his eyes ; read the advertisement , slowly and carefully , three several times ; and in something more than five minutes was on his way to : having actually , in his excitement , left the glass of hot gin-and-water , untasted .
'Is at home ? '
inquired of the girl who opened the door .
To this inquiry the girl returned the not uncommon , but rather evasive reply of ' I do n't know ; where do you come from ? '
Bumble no sooner uttered 's name , in explanation of his errand , than Mrs. Bedwin , who had been listening at the parlour door , hastened into the passage in a breathless state .
'Come in , come in , ' said the old lady : ' I knew we should hear of him .
I was certain of it .
I said so all along . '
Having heard this , the worthy old lady hurried back into the parlour again ; and seating herself on a sofa , burst into tears .
The girl , who was not quite so susceptible , had run upstairs meanwhile ; and now returned with a request that would follow her immediately : which he did .
He was shown into the little back study , where sat and his friend , with decanters and glasses before them .
The latter gentleman at once burst into the exclamation : ' A beadle .
A parish beadle , or I 'll eat my head . '
'Pray do n't interrupt just now , ' said .
'Take a seat , will you ? '
sat himself down ; quite confounded by the oddity of 's manner .
moved the lamp , so as to obtain an uninterrupted view of the beadle 's countenance ; and said , with a little impatience , 'Now , sir , you come in consequence of having seen the advertisement ? '
'Yes , sir , ' said .
'And you ARE a beadle , are you not ? '
' I am a porochial beadle , gentlemen , ' rejoined proudly .
'Of course , ' observed aside to his friend , ' I knew he was .
gently shook his head to impose silence on his friend , and resumed : 'Do you know where this poor boy is now ? '
'No more than nobody , ' replied .
'Well , what DO you know of him ? '
'Speak out , my friend , if you have anything to say .
What DO you know of him ? '
'You do n't happen to know any good of him , do you ? '
said , caustically ; after an attentive perusal of 's features .
, catching at the inquiry very quickly , shook his head with portentous solemnity .
said , looking triumphantly at .
looked apprehensively at 's pursed-up countenance ; and requested him to communicate what he knew regarding , in as few words as possible .
put down his hat ; unbuttoned his coat ; folded his arms ; inclined his head in a retrospective manner ; and , after a few moments ' reflection , commenced his story .
It would be tedious if given in the beadle 's words : occupying , as it did , some twenty minutes in the telling ; but the sum and substance of it was , that was a foundling , born of low and vicious parents .
That he had , from his birth , displayed no better qualities than treachery , ingratitude , and malice .
That he had terminated his brief career in the place of his birth , by making a sanguinary and cowardly attack on an unoffending lad , and running away in the night-time from his master 's house .
In proof of his really being the person he represented himself , laid upon the table the papers he had brought to town .
Folding his arms again , he then awaited 's observations .
' I fear it is all too true , ' said the old gentleman sorrowfully , after looking over the papers .
'This is not much for your intelligence ; but I would gladly have given you treble the money , if it had been favourable to the boy . '
It is not improbable that if had been possessed of this information at an earlier period of the interview , he might have imparted a very different colouring to his little history .
It was too late to do it now , however ; so he shook his head gravely , and , pocketing the five guineas , withdrew .
paced the room to and fro for some minutes ; evidently so much disturbed by the beadle 's tale , that even forbore to vex him further .
At length he stopped , and rang the bell violently .
, ' said , when the housekeeper appeared ; 'that boy , , is an imposter . '
It can not be , ' said the old lady energetically .
' I tell you he is , ' retorted the old gentleman .
'What do you mean by ca n't be ?
We have just heard a full account of him from his birth ; and he has been a thorough-paced little villain , all his life . '
' I never will believe it , sir , ' replied the old lady , firmly .
'You old women never believe anything but quack-doctors , and lying story-books , ' growled .
' I knew it all along .
Why did n't you take my advise in the beginning ; you would if he had n't had a fever , I suppose , eh ?
He was interesting , was n't he ?
And poked the fire with a flourish .
'He was a dear , grateful , gentle child , sir , ' retorted Mrs. Bedwin , indignantly .
' I know what children are , sir ; and have done these forty years ; and people who ca n't say the same , should n't say anything about them .
This was a hard hit at , who was a bachelor .
As it extorted nothing from that gentleman but a smile , the old lady tossed her head , and smoothed down her apron preparatory to another speech , when she was stopped by .
said the old gentleman , feigning an anger he was far from feeling .
'Never let me hear the boy 's name again .
I rang to tell you that .
Never , on any pretence , mind !
You may leave the room , Mrs. Bedwin .
There were sad hearts at 's that night .
's heart sank within him , when he thought of his good friends ; it was well for him that he could not know what they had heard , or it might have broken outright .
About noon next day , when the and had gone out to pursue their customary avocations , took the opportunity of reading Oliver a long lecture on the crying sin of ingratitude ; of which he clearly demonstrated he had been guilty , to no ordinary extent , in wilfully absenting himself from the society of his anxious friends ; and , still more , in endeavouring to escape from them after so much trouble and expense had been incurred in his recovery .
laid great stress on the fact of his having taken in , and cherished him , when , without his timely aid , he might have perished with hunger ; and he related the dismal and affecting history of a young lad whom , in his philanthropy , he had succoured under parallel circumstances , but who , proving unworthy of his confidence and evincing a desire to communicate with the police , had unfortunately come to be hanged at the Bailey one morning .
did not seek to conceal his share in the catastrophe , but lamented with tears in his eyes that the wrong-headed and treacherous behaviour of the young person in question , had rendered it necessary that he should become the victim of certain evidence for the crown : which , if it were not precisely true , was indispensably necessary for the safety of him ( ) and a few select friends .
concluded by drawing a rather disagreeable picture of the discomforts of hanging ; and , with great friendliness and politeness of manner , expressed his anxious hopes that he might never be obliged to submit to that unpleasant operation .
Little 's blood ran cold , as he listened to the 's words , and imperfectly comprehended the dark threats conveyed in them .
That it was possible even for justice itself to confound the innocent with the guilty when they were in accidental companionship , he knew already ; and that deeply-laid plans for the destruction of inconveniently knowing or over-communicative persons , had been really devised and carried out by the Jew on more occasions than one , he thought by no means unlikely , when he recollected the general nature of the altercations between that gentleman and : which seemed to bear reference to some foregone conspiracy of the kind .
As he glanced timidly up , and met the 's searching look , he felt that his pale face and trembling limbs were neither unnoticed nor unrelished by that wary old gentleman .
The Jew , smiling hideously , patted on the head , and said , that if he kept himself quiet , and applied himself to business , he saw they would be very good friends yet .
Then , taking his hat , and covering himself with an old patched great-coat , he went out , and locked the room-door behind him .
And so remained all that day , and for the greater part of many subsequent days , seeing nobody , between early morning and midnight , and left during the long hours to commune with his own thoughts .
, never failing to revert to his kind friends , and the opinion they must long ago have formed of him , were sad indeed .
After the lapse of a week or so , the Jew left the room-door unlocked ; and he was at liberty to wander about the house .
It was a very dirty place .
The rooms upstairs had great high wooden chimney-pieces and large doors , with panelled walls and cornices to the ceiling ; which , although they were black with neglect and dust , were ornamented in various ways .
From all of these tokens concluded that a long time ago , before the old was born , it had belonged to better people , and had perhaps been quite gay and handsome : dismal and dreary as it looked now .
Spiders had built their webs in the angles of the walls and ceilings ; and sometimes , when walked softly into a room , the mice would scamper across the floor , and run back terrified to their holes .
With these exceptions , there was neither sight nor sound of any living thing ; and often , when it grew dark , and he was tired of wandering from room to room , he would crouch in the corner of the passage by the street-door , to be as near living people as he could ; and would remain there , listening and counting the hours , until the Jew or the boys returned .
In all the rooms , the mouldering shutters were fast closed : the bars which held them were screwed tight into the wood ; the only light which was admitted , stealing its way through round holes at the top : which made the rooms more gloomy , and filled them with strange shadows .
There was a back-garret window with rusty bars outside , which had no shutter ; and out of this , often gazed with a melancholy face for hours together ; but nothing was to be descried from it but a confused and crowded mass of housetops , blackened chimneys , and gable-ends .
Sometimes , indeed , a grizzly head might be seen , peering over the parapet-wall of a distant house ; but it was quickly withdrawn again ; and as the window of 's observatory was nailed down , and dimmed with the rain and smoke of years , it was as much as he could do to make out the forms of the different objects beyond , without making any attempt to be seen or heard , -- which he had as much chance of being , as if he had lived inside the ball of 's .
One afternoon , the and being engaged out that evening , the first-named young gentleman took it into his head to evince some anxiety regarding the decoration of his person ( to do him justice , this was by no means an habitual weakness with him ) ; and , with this end and aim , he condescendingly commanded to assist him in his toilet , straightway .
was but too glad to make himself useful ; too happy to have some faces , however bad , to look upon ; too desirous to conciliate those about him when he could honestly do so ; to throw any objection in the way of this proposal .
So he at once expressed his readiness ; and , kneeling on the floor , while the sat upon the table so that he could take his foot in his laps , he applied himself to a process which designated as 'japanning his trotter-cases . '
The phrase , rendered into plain , signifieth , cleaning his boots .
Whether it was the sense of freedom and independence which a rational animal may be supposed to feel when he sits on a table in an easy attitude smoking a pipe , swinging one leg carelessly to and fro , and having his boots cleaned all the time , without even the past trouble of having taken them off , or the prospective misery of putting them on , to disturb his reflections ; or whether it was the goodness of the tobacco that soothed the feelings of the , or the mildness of the beer that mollified his thoughts ; he was evidently tinctured , for the nonce , with a spice of romance and enthusiasm , foreign to his general nature .
He looked down on , with a thoughtful countenance , for a brief space ; and then , raising his head , and heaving a gentle sign , said , half in abstraction , and half to : 'What a pity it is he is n't a prig ! '
said ; 'he do n't know what 's good for him . '
The sighed again , and resumed his pipe : as did .
They both smoked , for some seconds , in silence .
' I suppose you do n't even know what a prig is ? '
' I think I know that , ' replied , looking up .
'It 's a the -- ; you 're one , are you not ? '
' I am , ' replied the Dodger .
' I 'd scorn to be anything else . '
gave his hat a ferocious cock , after delivering this sentiment , and looked at , as if to denote that he would feel obliged by his saying anything to the contrary .
' I am , ' repeated the Dodger .
So we all are , down to the dog .
And he 's the downiest one of the lot ! '
'And the least given to peaching , ' added .
'He would n't so much as bark in a witness-box , for fear of committing himself ; no , not if you tied him up in one , and left him there without wittles for a fortnight , ' said the Dodger .
'Not a bit of it , ' observed .
Do n't he look fierce at any strange cove that laughs or sings when he 's in company ! '
'Wo n't he growl at all , when he hears a fiddle playing !
And do n't he hate other dogs as ai n't of his breed !
'He 's an out-and-out , ' said .
This was merely intended as a tribute to the animal 's abilities , but it was an appropriate remark in another sense , if had only known it ; for there are a good many ladies and gentlemen , claiming to be out-and-out Christians , between whom , and ' dog , there exist strong and singular points of resemblance .
'Well , well , ' said the , recurring to the point from which they had strayed : with that mindfulness of his profession which influenced all his proceedings .
'This has n't go anything to do with young Green here . '
'No more it has , ' said .
'Why do n't you put yourself under , ? '
'And make your fortun ' out of hand ? '
added the , with a grin .
'And so be able to retire on your property , and do the gen-teel : as I mean to , in the very next leap-year but four that ever comes , and the forty-second Tuesday in Trinity-week , ' said .
' I do n't like it , ' rejoined , timidly ; ' I wish they would let me go .
'And Fagin would RATHER not ! '
Oliver knew this too well ; but thinking it might be dangerous to express his feelings more openly , he only sighed , and went on with his boot-cleaning .
Do n't you take any pride out of yourself ?
Would you go and be dependent on your friends ? '
said : drawing two or three silk handkerchiefs from his pocket , and tossing them into a cupboard , 'that 's too mean ; that is . '
'_I_ could n't do it , ' said the , with an air of haughty disgust .
'You can leave your friends , though , ' said with a half smile ; 'and let them be punished for what you did . '
'That , ' rejoined the , with a wave of his pipe , 'That was all out of consideration for , 'cause the traps know that we work together , and he might have got into trouble if we had n't made our lucky ; that was the move , was n't it , ? '
nodded assent , and would have spoken , but the recollection of 's flight came so suddenly upon him , that the smoke he was inhaling got entangled with a laugh , and went up into his head , and down into his throat : and brought on a fit of coughing and stamping , about five minutes long .
said the , drawing forth a handful of shillings and halfpence .
What 's the odds where it comes from ?
Here , catch hold ; there 's plenty more where they were took from .
'It 's naughty , ai n't it , ? '
'He 'll come to be scragged , wo n't he ? '
' I do n't know what that means , ' replied .
'Something in this way , old feller , ' said .
As he said it , caught up an end of his neckerchief ; and , holding it erect in the air , dropped his head on his shoulder , and jerked a curious sound through his teeth ; thereby indicating , by a lively pantomimic representation , that scragging and hanging were one and the same thing .
'That 's what it means , ' said .
'Look how he stares , !
I never did see such prime company as that 'ere boy ; he 'll be the death of me , I know he will . '
, having laughed heartily again , resumed his pipe with tears in his eyes .
'You 've been brought up bad , ' said the , surveying his boots with much satisfaction when had polished them .
'Fagin will make something of you , though , or you 'll be the first he ever had that turned out unprofitable .
You 'd better begin at once ; for you 'll come to the trade long before you think of it ; and you 're only losing time , . '
backed this advice with sundry moral admonitions of his own : which , being exhausted , he and his friend launched into a glowing description of the numerous pleasures incidental to the life they led , interspersed with a variety of hints to Oliver that the best thing he could do , would be to secure 's favour without more delay , by the means which they themselves had employed to gain it .
'And always put this in your pipe , Nolly , ' said the , as the Jew was heard unlocking the door above , 'if you do n't take fogels and tickers -- ' 'What 's the good of talking in that way ? '
interposed ; 'he do n't know what you mean . '
'If you do n't take pocket-handkechers and watches , ' said the , reducing his conversation to the level of 's capacity , 'some other cove will ; so that the coves that lose 'em will be all the worse , and you 'll be all the worse , too , and nobody half a ha ' p'orth the better , except the chaps wot gets them -- and you 've just as good a right to them as they have . '
'To be sure , to be sure ! '
said the Jew , who had entered unseen by .
'It all lies in a nutshell my dear ; in a nutshell , take the 's word for it .
He understands the catechism of his trade . '
The old man rubbed his hands gleefully together , as he corroborated the 's reasoning in these terms ; and chuckled with delight at his pupil 's proficiency .
The conversation proceeded no farther at this time , for the had returned home accompanied by , and a gentleman whom had never seen before , but who was accosted by the Dodger as ; and who , having lingered on the stairs to exchange a few gallantries with the lady , now made his appearance .
was older in years than the Dodger : having perhaps numbered eighteen winters ; but there was a degree of deference in his deportment towards that young gentleman which seemed to indicate that he felt himself conscious of a slight inferiority in point of genius and professional aquirements .
He had small twinkling eyes , and a pock-marked face ; wore a fur cap , a dark corduroy jacket , greasy fustian trousers , and an apron .
His wardrobe was , in truth , rather out of repair ; but he excused himself to the company by stating that his 'time ' was only out an hour before ; and that , in consequence of having worn the regimentals for six weeks past , he had not been able to bestow any attention on his private clothes .
added , with strong marks of irritation , that the new way of fumigating clothes up yonder was infernal unconstitutional , for it burnt holes in them , and there was no remedy against the .
The same remark he considered to apply to the regulation mode of cutting the hair : which he held to be decidedly unlawful .
wound up his observations by stating that he had not touched a drop of anything for forty-two moral long hard-working days ; and that he 'wished he might be busted if he war n't as dry as a lime-basket . '
'Where do you think the gentleman has come from , ? '
inquired the Jew , with a grin , as the other boys put a bottle of spirits on the table .
' I -- I -- do n't know , sir , ' replied .
inquired , casting a contemptuous look at .
' A young friend of mine , my dear , ' replied the Jew .
'He 's in luck , then , ' said the young man , with a meaning look at .
'Never mind where I came from , young 'un ; you 'll find your way there , soon enough , I 'll bet a crown ! '
At this sally , the boys laughed .
After some more jokes on the same subject , they exchanged a few short whispers with ; and withdrew .
After some words apart between the last comer and , they drew their chairs towards the fire ; and the Jew , telling to come and sit by him , led the conversation to the topics most calculated to interest his hearers .
These were , the great advantages of the trade , the proficiency of the , the amiability of , and the liberality of the Jew himself .
At length these subjects displayed signs of being thoroughly exhausted ; and did the same : for the house of correction becomes fatiguing after a week or two .
accordingly withdrew ; and left the party to their repose .
From this day , was seldom left alone ; but was placed in almost constant communication with the two boys , who played the old game with the Jew every day : whether for their own improvement or 's , best knew .
At other times the old man would tell them stories of robberies he had committed in his younger days : mixed up with so much that was droll and curious , that could not help laughing heartily , and showing that he was amused in spite of all his better feelings .
In short , the wily old had the boy in his toils .
Having prepared his mind , by solitude and gloom , to prefer any society to the companionship of his own sad thoughts in such a dreary place , he was now slowly instilling into his soul the poison which he hoped would blacken it , and change its hue for ever .
It was a chill , damp , windy night , when the Jew : buttoning his great-coat tight round his shrivelled body , and pulling the collar up over his ears so as completely to obscure the lower part of his face : emerged from his den .
He paused on the step as the door was locked and chained behind him ; and having listened while the boys made all secure , and until their retreating footsteps were no longer audible , slunk down the street as quickly as he could .
The house to which had been conveyed , was in the neighborhood of .
The Jew stopped for an instant at the corner of the street ; and , glancing suspiciously round , crossed the road , and struck off in the direction of the .
The mud lay thick upon the stones , and a black mist hung over the streets ; the rain fell sluggishly down , and everything felt cold and clammy to the touch .
It seemed just the night when it befitted such a being as the Jew to be abroad .
As he glided stealthily along , creeping beneath the shelter of the walls and doorways , the hideous old man seemed like some loathsome reptile , engendered in the slime and darkness through which he moved : crawling forth , by night , in search of some rich offal for a meal .
He kept on his course , through many winding and narrow ways , until he reached ; then , turning suddenly off to the left , he soon became involved in a maze of the mean and dirty streets which abound in that close and densely-populated quarter .
The Jew was evidently too familiar with the ground he traversed to be at all bewildered , either by the darkness of the night , or the intricacies of the way .
He hurried through several alleys and streets , and at length turned into one , lighted only by a single lamp at the farther end .
At the door of a house in this street , he knocked ; having exchanged a few muttered words with the person who opened it , he walked upstairs .
A dog growled as he touched the handle of a room-door ; and a man 's voice demanded who was there .
'Only me , ; only me , my dear , ' said the Jew looking in .
'Bring in your body then , ' said .
'Lie down , you stupid brute !
Do n't you know the devil when he 's got a great-coat on ? '
Apparently , the dog had been somewhat deceived by 's outer garment ; for as the Jew unbuttoned it , and threw it over the back of a chair , he retired to the corner from which he had risen : wagging his tail as he went , to show that he was as well satisfied as it was in his nature to be .
'Well , my dear , ' replied the Jew. -- 'Ah !
The latter recognition was uttered with just enough of embarrassment to imply a doubt of its reception ; for and his young friend had not met , since she had interfered in behalf of .
All doubts upon the subject , if he had any , were speedily removed by the young lady 's behaviour .
She took her feet off the fender , pushed back her chair , and bade draw up his , without saying more about it : for it was a cold night , and no mistake .
'It is cold , dear , ' said the Jew , as he warmed his skinny hands over the fire .
'It seems to go right through one , ' added the old man , touching his side .
'It must be a piercer , if it finds its way through your heart , ' said .
'Give him something to drink , .
my body , make haste !
It 's enough to turn a man ill , to see his lean old carcase shivering in that way , like a ugly ghost just rose from the grave . '
quickly brought a bottle from a cupboard , in which there were many : which , to judge from the diversity of their appearance , were filled with several kinds of liquids .
Sikes pouring out a glass of brandy , bade the Jew drink it off .
'Quite enough , quite , thankye , , ' replied the Jew , putting down the glass after just setting his lips to it .
You 're afraid of our getting the better of you , are you ? '
inquired , fixing his eyes on the Jew .
With a hoarse grunt of contempt , seized the glass , and threw the remainder of its contents into the ashes : as a preparatory ceremony to filling it again for himself : which he did at once .
The Jew glanced round the room , as his companion tossed down the second glassful ; not in curiousity , for he had seen it often before ; but in a restless and suspicious manner habitual to him .
It was a meanly furnished apartment , with nothing but the contents of the closet to induce the belief that its occupier was anything but a working man ; and with no more suspicious articles displayed to view than two or three heavy bludgeons which stood in a corner , and a 'life-preserver ' that hung over the chimney-piece .
'There , ' said , smacking his lips .
'For business , ' replied ; 'so say what you 've got to say . '
'About the crib at , ? '
said the Jew , drawing his chair forward , and speaking in a very low voice .
you know what I mean , my dear , ' said the Jew .
'He knows what I mean , ; do n't he ? '
'No , he do n't , ' sneered .
'Or he wo n't , and that 's the same thing .
out , and call things by their right names ; do n't sit there , winking and blinking , and talking to me in hints , as if you war n't the very first that thought about the robbery .
said the Jew , who had in vain attempted to stop this burst of indignation ; 'somebody will hear us , my dear .
said ; ' I do n't care . '
But as DID care , on reflection , he dropped his voice as he said the words , and grew calmer .
'There , there , ' said the Jew , coaxingly .
'It was only my caution , nothing more .
Now , my dear , about that crib at ; when is it to be done , , eh ?
When is it to be done ?
plate , my dear , such plate ! '
said the Jew : rubbing his hands , and elevating his eyebrows in a rapture of anticipation .
'Not at all , ' replied coldly .
'Not to be done at all ! '
echoed the Jew , leaning back in his chair .
'No , not at all , ' rejoined .
'At least it ca n't be a put-up job , as we expected . '
'Then it has n't been properly gone about , ' said the Jew , turning pale with anger .
'But I will tell you , ' retorted .
'Who are you that 's not to be told ?
I tell you that has been hanging about the place for a fortnight , and he ca n't get one of the servants in line . '
'Do you mean to tell me , , ' said the Jew : softening as the other grew heated : 'that neither of the two men in the house can be got over ? '
'Yes , I do mean to tell you so , ' replied .
'The old lady has had 'em these twenty years ; and if you were to give 'em five hundred pound , they would n't be in it . '
'But do you mean to say , my dear , ' remonstrated the Jew , 'that the women ca n't be got over ? '
'Not a bit of it , ' replied .
'Not by flash ? '
'Think what women are , , ' 'No ; not even by flash , ' replied .
'He says he 's worn sham whiskers , and a canary waistcoat , the whole blessed time he 's been loitering down there , and it 's all of no use . '
'He should have tried mustachios and a pair of military trousers , my dear , ' said the Jew .
'So he did , ' rejoined , 'and they war n't of no more use than the other plant . '
The Jew looked blank at this information .
After ruminating for some minutes with his chin sunk on his breast , he raised his head and said , with a deep sigh , that if flash reported aright , he feared the game was up .
'And yet , ' said the old man , dropping his hands on his knees , 'it 's a sad thing , my dear , to lose so much when we had set our hearts upon it . '
'So it is , ' said .
A long silence ensued ; during which the Jew was plunged in deep thought , with his face wrinkled into an expression of villainy perfectly demoniacal .
eyed him furtively from time to time .
, apparently fearful of irritating the housebreaker , sat with her eyes fixed upon the fire , as if she had been deaf to all that passed .
'Fagin , ' said , abruptly breaking the stillness that prevailed ; 'is it worth fifty shiners extra , if it 's safely done from the outside ? '
'Yes , ' said the Jew , as suddenly rousing himself .
'Yes , my dear , yes , ' rejoined the ; his eyes glistening , and every muscle in his face working , with the excitement that the inquiry had awakened .
'Then , ' said , thrusting aside the 's hand , with some disdain , 'let it come off as soon as you like .
and me were over the garden-wall the night afore last , sounding the panels of the door and shutters .
The crib 's barred up at night like a jail ; but there 's one part we can crack , safe and softly . '
'Why , ' whispered , 'as you cross the lawn -- ' 'Yes ? '
said the Jew , bending his head forward , with his eyes almost starting out of it .
cried , stopping short , as the girl , scarcely moving her head , looked suddenly round , and pointed for an instant to the 's face .
'Never mind which part it is .
You ca n't do it without me , I know ; but it 's best to be on the safe side when one deals with you . '
'As you like , my dear , as you like ' replied the Jew .
'Is there no help wanted , but yours and 's ? '
'Cept a centre-bit and a boy .
The first we 've both got ; the second you must find us . '
then it 's a panel , eh ? '
'Never mind wot it is ! '
' I want a boy , and he mus n't be a big 'un .
said , reflectively , 'if I 'd only got that young boy of , the chimbley-sweeper 's !
He kept him small on purpose , and let him out by the job .
But the father gets lagged ; and then the comes , and takes the boy away from a trade where he was earning money , teaches him to read and write , and in time makes a 'prentice of him .
And so they go on , ' said , his wrath rising with the recollection of his wrongs , 'so they go on ; and , if they 'd got money enough ( which it 's a Providence they have n't , ) we should n't have half a dozen boys left in the whole trade , in a year or two . '
'No more we should , ' acquiesced the Jew , who had been considering during this speech , and had only caught the last sentence .
The Jew nodded his head towards , who was still gazing at the fire ; and intimated , by a sign , that he would have her told to leave the room .
shrugged his shoulders impatiently , as if he thought the precaution unnecessary ; but complied , nevertheless , by requesting to fetch him a jug of beer .
'You do n't want any beer , ' said , folding her arms , and retaining her seat very composedly .
' I tell you I do ! '
'Nonsense , ' rejoined the girl coolly , 'Go on , .
I know what he 's going to say , ; he need n't mind me . '
looked from one to the other in some surprise .
'Why , you do n't mind the old girl , do you , Fagin ? '
'You 've known her long enough to trust her , or the 's in it .
She ai n't one to blab .
replied the young lady : drawing her chair up to the table , and putting her elbows upon it .
'No , no , my dear , I know you 're not , ' said the ; 'but -- ' and again the old man paused .
' I did n't know whether she might n't p ' r'aps be out of sorts , you know , my dear , as she was the other night , ' replied the Jew .
At this confession , burst into a loud laugh ; and , swallowing a glass of brandy , shook her head with an air of defiance , and burst into sundry exclamations of 'Keep the game a-going ! '
These seemed to have the effect of re-assuring both gentlemen ; for the Jew nodded his head with a satisfied air , and resumed his seat : as did likewise .
'Now , , ' said with a laugh .
'Tell at once , about ! '
you 're a clever one , my dear : the sharpest girl I ever saw ! '
said the Jew , patting her on the neck .
'It about Oliver I was going to speak , sure enough .
'He 's the boy for you , my dear , ' replied the Jew in a hoarse whisper ; laying his finger on the side of his nose , and grinning frightfully .
' I would , if I was in your place .
He may n't be so much up , as any of the others ; but that 's not what you want , if he 's only to open a door for you .
upon it he 's a safe one , . '
' I know he is , ' rejoined .
'He 's been in good training these last few weeks , and it 's time he began to work for his bread .
Besides , the others are all too big . '
'Well , he is just the size I want , ' said , ruminating .
'And will do everything you want , , my dear , ' interposed the ; 'he ca n't help himself .
That is , if you frighten him enough . '
'It 'll be no sham frightening , mind you .
If there 's anything queer about him when we once get into the work ; in for a penny , in for a pound .
You wo n't see him alive again , .
Think of that , before you send him .
said the robber , poising a crowbar , which he had drawn from under the bedstead .
' I 've thought of it all , ' said the Jew with energy .
' I 've -- I 've had my eye upon him , my dears , close -- close .
Once let him feel that he is one of us ; once fill his mind with the idea that he has been a thief ; and he 's ours !
It could n't have come about better !
The old man crossed his arms upon his breast ; and , drawing his head and shoulders into a heap , literally hugged himself for joy .
'Perhaps I do , my dear , ' said the Jew , with a shrill chuckle .
'Mine , if you like , . '
'And wot , ' said , scowling fiercely on his agreeable friend , 'wot makes you take so much pains about one chalk-faced kid , when you know there are fifty boys snoozing about every night , as you might pick and choose from ? '
'Because they 're of no use to me , my dear , ' replied the Jew , with some confusion , 'not worth the taking .
Their looks convict 'em when they get into trouble , and I lose 'em all .
With this boy , properly managed , my dears , I could do what I could n't with twenty of them .
Besides , ' said the Jew , recovering his self-possession , 'he has us now if he could only give us leg-bail again ; and he must be in the same boat with us .
Never mind how he came there ; it 's quite enough for my power over him that he was in a robbery ; that 's all I want .
Now , how much better this is , than being obliged to put the poor leetle boy out of the way -- which would be dangerous , and we should lose by it besides . '
'When is it to be done ? '
asked , stopping some turbulent exclamation on the part of , expressive of the disgust with which he received 's affectation of humanity .
'Ah , to be sure , ' said the ; 'when is it to be done , ? '
' I planned with , the night arter to-morrow , ' rejoined in a surly voice , 'if he heerd nothing from me to the contrairy . '
'Good , ' said the ; 'there 's no moon . '
'It 's all arranged about bringing off the swag , is it ? '
'And about -- ' 'Oh , ah , it 's all planned , ' rejoined , interrupting him .
You 'd better bring the boy here to-morrow night .
I shall get off the stone an hour arter daybreak .
Then you hold your tongue , and keep the melting-pot ready , and that 's all you 'll have to do . '
After some discussion , in which all three took an active part , it was decided that should repair to the 's next evening when the night had set in , and bring away with her ; craftily observing , that , if he evinced any disinclination to the task , he would be more willing to accompany the girl who had so recently interfered in his behalf , than anybody else .
It was also solemnly arranged that poor Oliver should , for the purposes of the contemplated expedition , be unreservedly consigned to the care and custody of ; and further , that the said should deal with him as he thought fit ; and should not be held responsible by the Jew for any mischance or evil that might be necessary to visit him : it being understood that , to render the compact in this respect binding , any representations made by on his return should be required to be confirmed and corroborated , in all important particulars , by the testimony of flash .
These preliminaries adjusted , proceeded to drink brandy at a furious rate , and to flourish the crowbar in an alarming manner ; yelling forth , at the same time , most unmusical snatches of song , mingled with wild execrations .
At length , in a fit of professional enthusiasm , he insisted upon producing his box of housebreaking tools : which he had no sooner stumbled in with , and opened for the purpose of explaining the nature and properties of the various implements it contained , and the peculiar beauties of their construction , than he fell over the box upon the floor , and went to sleep where he fell .
'Good-night , , ' said the Jew , muffling himself up as before .
Their eyes met , and the Jew scrutinised her , narrowly .
There was no flinching about the girl .
She was as true and earnest in the matter as himself could be .
The Jew again bade her good-night , and , bestowing a sly kick upon the prostrate form of while her back was turned , groped downstairs .
muttered the Jew to himself as he turned homeward .
'The worst of these women is , that a very little thing serves to call up some long-forgotten feeling ; and , the best of them is , that it never lasts .
The man against the child , for a bag of gold ! '
Beguiling the time with these pleasant reflections , wended his way , through mud and mire , to his gloomy abode : where the was sitting up , impatiently awaiting his return .
I want to speak to him , ' was his first remark as they descended the stairs .
'Hours ago , ' replied the , throwing open a door .
The boy was lying , fast asleep , on a rude bed upon the floor ; so pale with anxiety , and sadness , and the closeness of his prison , that he looked like death ; not death as it shows in shroud and coffin , but in the guise it wears when life has just departed ; when a young and gentle spirit has , but an instant , fled to , and the gross air of the world has not had time to breathe upon the changing dust it hallowed .
'Not now , ' said the Jew , turning softly away .
When awoke in the morning , he was a good deal surprised to find that a new pair of shoes , with strong thick soles , had been placed at his bedside ; and that his old shoes had been removed .
At first , he was pleased with the discovery : hoping that it might be the forerunner of his release ; but such thoughts were quickly dispelled , on his sitting down to breakfast along with the Jew , who told him , in a tone and manner which increased his alarm , that he was to be taken to the residence of that night .
Not to stop there , ' replied the Jew .
'We should n't like to lose you .
Do n't be afraid , , you shall come back to us again .
We wo n't be so cruel as to send you away , my dear .
The old man , who was stooping over the fire toasting a piece of bread , looked round as he bantered thus ; and chuckled as if to show that he knew he would still be very glad to get away if he could .
' I suppose , ' said the Jew , fixing his eyes on , 'you want to know what you 're going to 's for -- -eh , my dear ? '
Oliver coloured , involuntarily , to find that the old thief had been reading his thoughts ; but boldly said , Yes , he did want to know .
inquired Fagin , parrying the question .
'Indeed I do n't know , sir , ' replied .
said the Jew , turning away with a disappointed countenance from a close perusal of the boy 's face .
'Wait till tells you , then . '
The Jew seemed much vexed by 's not expressing any greater curiosity on the subject ; but the truth is , that , although felt very anxious , he was too much confused by the earnest cunning of 's looks , and his own speculations , to make any further inquiries just then .
He had no other opportunity : for the Jew remained very surly and silent till night : when he prepared to go abroad .
'You may burn a candle , ' said the Jew , putting one upon the table .
'And here 's a book for you to read , till they come to fetch you .
The Jew walked to the door : looking over his shoulder at the boy as he went .
Suddenly stopping , he called him by his name .
Oliver looked up ; the Jew , pointing to the candle , motioned him to light it .
He did so ; and , as he placed the candlestick upon the table , saw that the Jew was gazing fixedly at him , with lowering and contracted brows , from the dark end of the room .
said the old man , shaking his right hand before him in a warning manner .
'He 's a rough man , and thinks nothing of blood when his own is up .
Whatever falls out , say nothing ; and do what he bids you .
Placing a strong emphasis on the last word , he suffered his features gradually to resolve themselves into a ghastly grin , and , nodding his head , left the room .
Oliver leaned his head upon his hand when the old man disappeared , and pondered , with a trembling heart , on the words he had just heard .
The more he thought of the 's admonition , the more he was at a loss to divine its real purpose and meaning .
He could think of no bad object to be attained by sending him to , which would not be equally well answered by his remaining with ; and after meditating for a long time , concluded that he had been selected to perform some ordinary menial offices for the housebreaker , until another boy , better suited for his purpose could be engaged .
He was too well accustomed to suffering , and had suffered too much where he was , to bewail the prospect of change very severely .
He remained lost in thought for some minutes ; and then , with a heavy sigh , snuffed the candle , and , taking up the book which the had left with him , began to read .
He turned over the leaves .
Carelessly at first ; but , lighting on a passage which attracted his attention , he soon became intent upon the volume .
It was a history of the lives and trials of great criminals ; and the pages were soiled and thumbed with use .
Here , he read of dreadful crimes that made the blood run cold ; of secret murders that had been committed by the lonely wayside ; of bodies hidden from the eye of man in deep pits and wells : which would not keep them down , deep as they were , but had yielded them up at last , after many years , and so maddened the murderers with the sight , that in their horror they had confessed their guilt , and yelled for the gibbet to end their agony .
Here , too , he read of men who , lying in their beds at dead of night , had been tempted ( so they said ) and led on , by their own bad thoughts , to such dreadful bloodshed as it made the flesh creep , and the limbs quail , to think of .
The terrible descriptions were so real and vivid , that the sallow pages seemed to turn red with gore ; and the words upon them , to be sounded in his ears , as if they were whispered , in hollow murmurs , by the spirits of the dead .
In a paroxysm of fear , the boy closed the book , and thrust it from him .
Then , falling upon his knees , he prayed to spare him from such deeds ; and rather to will that he should die at once , than be reserved for crimes , so fearful and appalling .
By degrees , he grew more calm , and besought , in a low and broken voice , that he might be rescued from his present dangers ; and that if any aid were to be raised up for a poor outcast boy who had never known the love of friends or kindred , it might come to him now , when , desolate and deserted , he stood alone in the midst of wickedness and guilt .
He had concluded his prayer , but still remained with his head buried in his hands , when a rustling noise aroused him .
he cried , starting up , and catching sight of a figure standing by the door .
Only me , ' replied a tremulous voice .
Oliver raised the candle above his head : and looked towards the door .
'Put down the light , ' said the girl , turning away her head .
saw that she was very pale , and gently inquired if she were ill .
The girl threw herself into a chair , with her back towards him : and wrung her hands ; but made no reply .
she cried after a while , ' I never thought of this . '
I will if I can .
She rocked herself to and fro ; caught her throat ; and , uttering a gurgling sound , gasped for breath .
cried , 'What is it ? '
The girl beat her hands upon her knees , and her feet upon the ground ; and , suddenly stopping , drew her shawl close round her : and shivered with cold .
Drawing her chair close to it , she sat there , for a little time , without speaking ; but at length she raised her head , and looked round .
' I do n't know what comes over me sometimes , ' said she , affecting to busy herself in arranging her dress ; 'it 's this damp dirty room , I think .
Now , Nolly , dear , are you ready ? '
'Am I to go with you ? '
I have come from , ' replied the girl .
'You are to go with me . '
echoed the girl , raising her eyes , and averting them again , the moment they encountered the boy 's face .
' I do n't believe it , ' said : who had watched her closely .
'Have it your own way , ' rejoined the girl , affecting to laugh .
could see that he had some power over the girl 's better feelings , and , for an instant , thought of appealing to her compassion for his helpless state .
But , then , the thought darted across his mind that it was barely eleven o'clock ; and that many people were still in the streets : of whom surely some might be found to give credence to his tale .
As the reflection occured to him , he stepped forward : and said , somewhat hastily , that he was ready .
Neither his brief consideration , nor its purport , was lost on his companion .
She eyed him narrowly , while he spoke ; and cast upon him a look of intelligence which sufficiently showed that she guessed what had been passing in his thoughts .
said the girl , stooping over him , and pointing to the door as she looked cautiously round .
I have tried hard for you , but all to no purpose .
You are hedged round and round .
If ever you are to get loose from here , this is not the time . '
Struck by the energy of her manner , looked up in her face with great surprise .
She seemed to speak the truth ; her countenance was white and agitated ; and she trembled with very earnestness .
' I have saved you from being ill-used once , and I will again , and I do now , ' continued the girl aloud ; 'for those who would have fetched you , if I had not , would have been far more rough than me .
I have promised for your being quiet and silent ; if you are not , you will only do harm to yourself and me too , and perhaps be my death .
I have borne all this for you already , as true as sees me show it . '
She pointed , hastily , to some livid bruises on her neck and arms ; and continued , with great rapidity : 'Remember this !
And do n't let me suffer more for you , just now .
If I could help you , I would ; but I have not the power .
They do n't mean to harm you ; whatever they make you do , is no fault of yours .
Every word from you is a blow for me .
She caught the hand which instinctively placed in hers , and , blowing out the light , drew him after her up the stairs .
The door was opened , quickly , by some one shrouded in the darkness , and was as quickly closed , when they had passed out .
A hackney-cabriolet was in waiting ; with the same vehemence which she had exhibited in addressing , the girl pulled him in with her , and drew the curtains close .
The driver wanted no directions , but lashed his horse into full speed , without the delay of an instant .
The girl still held fast by the hand , and continued to pour into his ear , the warnings and assurances she had already imparted .
All was so quick and hurried , that he had scarcely time to recollect where he was , or how he came there , when the carriage stopped at the house to which the 's steps had been directed on the previous evening .
For one brief moment , cast a hurried glance along the empty street , and a cry for help hung upon his lips .
But the girl 's voice was in his ear , beseeching him in such tones of agony to remember her , that he had not the heart to utter it .
While he hesitated , the opportunity was gone ; he was already in the house , and the door was shut .
'This way , ' said the girl , releasing her hold for the first time .
replied Sikes : appearing at the head of the stairs , with a candle .
That 's the time of day .
This was a very strong expression of approbation , an uncommonly hearty welcome , from a person of ' temperament .
, appearing much gratified thereby , saluted him cordially .
'Bull's-eye 's gone home with , ' observed , as he lighted them up .
'He 'd have been in the way . '
'So you 've got the kid , ' said when they had all reached the room : closing the door as he spoke .
'Yes , here he is , ' replied .
'Like a lamb , ' rejoined .
' I 'm glad to hear it , ' said , looking grimly at ; 'for the sake of his young carcase : as would otherways have suffered for it .
Come here , young 'un ; and let me read you a lectur ' , which is as well got over at once . '
Thus addressing his new pupil , pulled off 's cap and threw it into a corner ; and then , taking him by the shoulder , sat himself down by the table , and stood the boy in front of him .
'Now , first : do you know wot this is ? '
inquired , taking up a pocket-pistol which lay on the table .
Oliver replied in the affirmative .
'Well , then , look here , ' continued .
'This is powder ; that 'ere 's a bullet ; and this is a little bit of a old hat for waddin ' . '
Oliver murmured his comprehension of the different bodies referred to ; and proceeded to load the pistol , with great nicety and deliberation .
'Now it 's loaded , ' said , when he had finished .
'Yes , I see it is , sir , ' replied .
'Well , ' said the robber , grasping 's wrist , and putting the barrel so close to his temple that they touched ; at which moment the boy could not repress a start ; 'if you speak a word when you 're out o'doors with me , except when I speak to you , that loading will be in your head without notice .
So , if you _do_ make up your mind to speak without leave , say your prayers first . '
Having bestowed a scowl upon the object of this warning , to increase its effect , continued .
'As near as I know , there is n't anybody as would be asking very partickler arter you , if you _was_ disposed of ; so I need n't take this devil-and-all of trouble to explain matters to you , if it war n't for your own good .
'The short and the long of what you mean , ' said : speaking very emphatically , and slightly frowning at as if to bespeak his serious attention to her words : 'is , that if you 're crossed by him in this job you have on hand , you 'll prevent his ever telling tales afterwards , by shooting him through the head , and will take your chance of swinging for it , as you do for a great many other things in the way of business , every month of your life . '
observed , approvingly ; 'women can always put things in fewest words. -- Except when it 's blowing up ; and then they lengthens it out .
And now that he 's thoroughly up to it , let 's have some supper , and get a snooze before starting . '
In pursuance of this request , quickly laid the cloth ; disappearing for a few minutes , she presently returned with a pot of porter and a dish of sheep 's heads : which gave occasion to several pleasant witticisms on the part of , founded upon the singular coincidence of 'jemmies ' being a can name , common to them , and also to an ingenious implement much used in his profession .
Indeed , the worthy gentleman , stimulated perhaps by the immediate prospect of being on active service , was in great spirits and good humour ; in proof whereof , it may be here remarked , that he humourously drank all the beer at a draught , and did not utter , on a rough calculation , more than four-score oaths during the whole progress of the meal .
being ended -- it may be easily conceived that had no great appetite for it -- disposed of a couple of glasses of spirits and water , and threw himself on the bed ; ordering , with many imprecations in case of failure , to call him at five precisely .
Oliver stretched himself in his clothes , by command of the same authority , on a mattress upon the floor ; and the girl , mending the fire , sat before it , in readiness to rouse them at the appointed time .
For a long time lay awake , thinking it not impossible that might seek that opportunity of whispering some further advice ; but the girl sat brooding over the fire , without moving , save now and then to trim the light .
Weary with watching and anxiety , he at length fell asleep .
When he awoke , the table was covered with tea-things , and was thrusting various articles into the pockets of his great-coat , which hung over the back of a chair .
was busily engaged in preparing breakfast .
It was not yet daylight ; for the candle was still burning , and it was quite dark outside .
A sharp rain , too , was beating against the window-panes ; and the sky looked black and cloudy .
growled , as started up ; 'half-past five !
sharp , or you 'll get no breakfast ; for it 's late as it is . '
was not long in making his toilet ; having taken some breakfast , he replied to a surly inquiry from , by saying that he was quite ready .
, scarcely looking at the boy , threw him a handkerchief to tie round his throat ; gave him a large rough cape to button over his shoulders .
Thus attired , he gave his hand to the robber , who , merely pausing to show him with a menacing gesture that he had that same pistol in a side-pocket of his great-coat , clasped it firmly in his , and , exchanging a farewell with , led him away .
Oliver turned , for an instant , when they reached the door , in the hope of meeting a look from the girl .
But she had resumed her old seat in front of the fire , and sat , perfectly motionless before it .
It was a cheerless morning when they got into the street ; blowing and raining hard ; and the clouds looking dull and stormy .
The night had been very wet : large pools of water had collected in the road : and the kennels were overflowing .
There was a faint glimmering of the coming day in the sky ; but it rather aggravated than relieved the gloom of the scene : the sombre light only serving to pale that which the street lamps afforded , without shedding any warmer or brighter tints upon the wet house-tops , and dreary streets .
There appeared to be nobody stirring in that quarter of the town ; the windows of the houses were all closely shut ; and the streets through which they passed , were noiseless and empty .
By the time they had turned into the , the day had fairly begun to break .
Many of the lamps were already extinguished ; a few country waggons were slowly toiling on , towards ; now and then , a stage-coach , covered with mud , rattled briskly by : the driver bestowing , as he passed , an admonitory lash upon the heavy waggoner who , by keeping on the wrong side of the road , had endangered his arriving at the office , a quarter of a minute after his time .
The public-houses , with gas-lights burning inside , were already open .
By degrees , other shops began to be unclosed , and a few scattered people were met with .
Then , came straggling groups of labourers going to their work ; then , men and women with fish-baskets on their heads ; donkey-carts laden with vegetables ; chaise-carts filled with live-stock or whole carcasses of meat ; milk-women with pails ; an unbroken concourse of people , trudging out with various supplies to the eastern suburbs of the town .
As they approached the , the noise and traffic gradually increased ; when they threaded the streets between and , it had swelled into a roar of sound and bustle .
It was as light as it was likely to be , till night came on again , and the busy morning of half the population had begun .
Turning down and , and crossing square , struck , by way of , into : thence into , and so into ; from which latter place arose a tumult of discordant sounds that filled with amazement .
The ground was covered , nearly ankle-deep , with filth and mire ; a thick steam , perpetually rising from the reeking bodies of the cattle , and mingling with the fog , which seemed to rest upon the chimney-tops , hung heavily above .
All the pens in the centre of the large area , and as many temporary pens as could be crowded into the vacant space , were filled with sheep ; tied up to posts by the gutter side were long lines of beasts and oxen , three or four deep .
Countrymen , butchers , drovers , hawkers , boys , thieves , idlers , and vagabonds of every low grade , were mingled together in a mass ; the whistling of drovers , the barking dogs , the bellowing and plunging of the oxen , the bleating of sheep , the grunting and squeaking of pigs , the cries of hawkers , the shouts , oaths , and quarrelling on all sides ; the ringing of bells and roar of voices , that issued from every public-house ; the crowding , pushing , driving , beating , whooping and yelling ; the hideous and discordant dim that resounded from every corner of the market ; and the unwashed , unshaven , squalid , and dirty figures constantly running to and fro , and bursting in and out of the throng ; rendered it a stunning and bewildering scene , which quite confounded the senses .
, dragging after him , elbowed his way through the thickest of the crowd , and bestowed very little attention on the numerous sights and sounds , which so astonished the boy .
He nodded , twice or thrice , to a passing friend ; and , resisting as many invitations to take a morning dram , pressed steadily onward , until they were clear of the turmoil , and had made their way through into .
said , looking up at the clock of 's , 'hard upon seven !
, do n't lag behind already , Lazy-legs ! '
accompanied this speech with a jerk at his little companion 's wrist ; , quickening his pace into a kind of trot between a fast walk and a run , kept up with the rapid strides of the house-breaker as well as he could .
They held their course at this rate , until they had passed corner , and were on their way to : when relaxed his pace , until an empty cart which was at some little distance behind , came up .
Seeing 'Hounslow ' written on it , he asked the driver with as much civility as he could assume , if he would give them a lift as far as .
'Jump up , ' said the man .
'Yes ; he 's my boy , ' replied , looking hard at , and putting his hand abstractedly into the pocket where the pistol was .
'Your father walks rather too quick for you , do n't he , my man ? '
inquired the driver : seeing that was out of breath .
'Not a bit of it , ' replied , interposing .
Here , take hold of my hand , .
Thus addressing , he helped him into the cart ; and the driver , pointing to a heap of sacks , told him to lie down there , and rest himself .
As they passed the different mile-stones , wondered , more and more , where his companion meant to take him .
, , , , , were all passed ; and yet they went on as steadily as if they had only just begun their journey .
At length , they came to a public-house called the Coach and ; a little way beyond which , another road appeared to run off .
And here , the cart stopped .
Sikes dismounted with great precipitation , holding by the hand all the while ; and lifting him down directly , bestowed a furious look upon him , and rapped the side-pocket with his fist , in a significant manner .
'Good-bye , boy , ' said the man .
'He 's sulky , ' replied , giving him a shake ; 'he 's sulky .
rejoined the other , getting into his cart .
'It 's a fine day , after all . '
waited until he had fairly gone ; and then , telling Oliver he might look about him if he wanted , once again led him onward on his journey .
They turned round to the left , a short way past the public-house ; and then , taking a right-hand road , walked on for a long time : passing many large gardens and gentlemen 's houses on both sides of the way , and stopping for nothing but a little beer , until they reached a town .
Here against the wall of a house , saw written up in pretty large letters , . '
They lingered about , in the fields , for some hours .
At length they came back into the town ; and , turning into an old public-house with a defaced sign-board , ordered some dinner by the kitchen fire .
The kitchen was an old , low-roofed room ; with a great beam across the middle of the ceiling , and benches , with high backs to them , by the fire ; on which were seated several rough men in smock-frocks , drinking and smoking .
They took no notice of ; and very little of ; and , as took very little notice of them , he and his young comrade sat in a corner by themselves , without being much troubled by their company .
They had some cold meat for dinner , and sat so long after it , while indulged himself with three or four pipes , that began to feel quite certain they were not going any further .
Being much tired with the walk , and getting up so early , he dozed a little at first ; then , quite overpowered by fatigue and the fumes of the tobacco , fell asleep .
It was quite dark when he was awakened by a push from .
Rousing himself sufficiently to sit up and look about him , he found that worthy in close fellowship and communication with a labouring man , over a pint of ale .
'So , you 're going on to , are you ? '
'Yes , I am , ' replied the man , who seemed a little the worse -- or better , as the case might be -- for drinking ; 'and not slow about it neither .
My horse has n't got a load behind him going back , as he had coming up in the mornin ' ; and he wo n't be long a-doing of it .
'Could you give my boy and me a lift as far as there ? '
demanded , pushing the ale towards his new friend .
'If you 're going directly , I can , ' replied the man , looking out of the pot .
'Are you going to ? '
'Going on to , ' replied .
' I 'm your man , as far as I go , ' replied the other .
'Yes , the other gentleman 's paid , ' replied the girl .
said the man , with tipsy gravity ; 'that wo n't do , you know . '
'You 're a-going to accommodate us , and wot 's to prevent my standing treat for a pint or so , in return ? '
The stranger reflected upon this argument , with a very profound face ; having done so , he seized by the hand : and declared he was a real good fellow .
To which replied , he was joking ; as , if he had been sober , there would have been strong reason to suppose he was .
After the exchange of a few more compliments , they bade the company good-night , and went out ; the girl gathering up the pots and glasses as they did so , and lounging out to the door , with her hands full , to see the party start .
The horse , whose health had been drunk in his absence , was standing outside : ready harnessed to the cart .
and got in without any further ceremony ; and the man to whom he belonged , having lingered for a minute or two 'to bear him up , ' and to defy the hostler and the world to produce his equal , mounted also .
Then , the hostler was told to give the horse his head ; and , his head being given him , he made a very unpleasant use of it : tossing it into the air with great disdain , and running into the parlour windows over the way ; after performing those feats , and supporting himself for a short time on his hind-legs , he started off at great speed , and rattled out of the town right gallantly .
The night was very dark .
A damp mist rose from the river , and the marshy ground about ; and spread itself over the dreary fields .
It was piercing cold , too ; all was gloomy and black .
Not a word was spoken ; for the driver had grown sleepy ; and was in no mood to lead him into conversation .
sat huddled together , in a corner of the cart ; bewildered with alarm and apprehension ; and figuring strange objects in the gaunt trees , whose branches waved grimly to and fro , as if in some fantastic joy at the desolation of the scene .
As they passed , the clock struck seven .
There was a light in the ferry-house window opposite : which streamed across the road , and threw into more sombre shadow a dark yew-tree with graves beneath it .
There was a dull sound of falling water not far off ; and the leaves of the old tree stirred gently in the night wind .
It seemed like quiet music for the repose of the dead .
was passed through , and they came again into the lonely road .
Two or three miles more , and the cart stopped .
alighted , took by the hand , and they once again walked on .
They turned into no house at , as the weary boy had expected ; but still kept walking on , in mud and darkness , through gloomy lanes and over cold open wastes , until they came within sight of the lights of a town at no great distance .
On looking intently forward , saw that the water was just below them , and that they were coming to the foot of a bridge .
kept straight on , until they were close upon the bridge ; then turned suddenly down a bank upon the left .
thought , turning sick with fear .
'He has brought me to this lonely place to murder me ! '
He was about to throw himself on the ground , and make one struggle for his young life , when he saw that they stood before a solitary house : all ruinous and decayed .
There was a window on each side of the dilapidated entrance ; and one story above ; but no light was visible .
The house was dark , dismantled : and the all appearance , uninhabited .
Sikes , with 's hand still in his , softly approached the low porch , and raised the latch .
The door yielded to the pressure , and they passed in together .
cried a loud , hoarse voice , as soon as they set foot in the passage .
'Do n't make such a row , ' said , bolting the door .
' A glim , , a glim !
Show the gentleman in , ; wake up first , if convenient . '
The speaker appeared to throw a boot-jack , or some such article , at the person he addressed , to rouse him from his slumbers : for the noise of a wooden body , falling violently , was heard ; and then an indistinct muttering , as of a man between sleep and awake .
'There 's in the passage with nobody to do the civil to him ; and you sleeping there , as if you took laudanum with your meals , and nothing stronger .
Are you any fresher now , or do you want the iron candlestick to wake you thoroughly ? '
A pair of slipshod feet shuffled , hastily , across the bare floor of the room , as this interrogatory was put ; and there issued , from a door on the right hand ; first , a feeble candle : and next , the form of the same individual who has been heretofore described as labouring under the infirmity of speaking through his nose , and officiating as waiter at the public-house on .
exclaimed , with real or counterfeit joy ; 'cub id , sir ; cub id . '
you get on first , ' said , putting in front of him .
or I shall tread upon your heels . '
Muttering a curse upon his tardiness , pushed before him ; and they entered a low dark room with a smoky fire , two or three broken chairs , a table , and a very old couch : on which , with his legs much higher than his head , a man was reposing at full length , smoking a long clay pipe .
He was dressed in a smartly-cut snuff-coloured coat , with large brass buttons ; an orange neckerchief ; a coarse , staring , shawl-pattern waistcoat ; and drab breeches .
( for he it was ) had no very great quantity of hair , either upon his head or face ; but what he had , was of a reddish dye , and tortured into long corkscrew curls , through which he occasionally thrust some very dirty fingers , ornamented with large common rings .
He was a trifle above the middle size , and apparently rather weak in the legs ; but this circumstance by no means detracted from his own admiration of his top-boots , which he contemplated , in their elevated situation , with lively satisfaction .
said this figure , turning his head towards the door , ' I 'm glad to see you .
I was almost afraid you 'd given it up : in which case I should have made a personal wentur .
Uttering this exclamation in a tone of great surprise , as his eyes rested on , brought himself into a sitting posture , and demanded who that was .
replied , drawing a chair towards the fire .
'Wud of 's lads , ' exclaimed , with a grin .
exclaimed , looking at .
'Wot an inwalable boy that 'll make , for the old ladies ' pockets in chapels !
His mug is a fortin ' to him . '
'There -- there 's enough of that , ' interposed , impatiently ; and stooping over his recumbant friend , he whispered a few words in his ear : at which laughed immensely , and honoured with a long stare of astonishment .
'Now , ' said , as he resumed his seat , 'if you 'll give us something to eat and drink while we 're waiting , you 'll put some heart in us ; or in me , at all events .
Sit down by the fire , younker , and rest yourself ; for you 'll have to go out with us again to-night , though not very far off . '
Oliver looked at , in mute and timid wonder ; and drawing a stool to the fire , sat with his aching head upon his hands , scarecely knowing where he was , or what was passing around him .
'Here , ' said , as the young placed some fragments of food , and a bottle upon the table , 'Success to the crack ! '
He rose to honour the toast ; and , carefully depositing his empty pipe in a corner , advanced to the table , filled a glass with spirits , and drank off its contents .
did the same .
' A drain for the boy , ' said , half-filling a wine-glass .
'Indeed , ' said , looking piteously up into the man 's face ; 'Down with it ! '
'Do you think I do n't know what 's good for you ?
him to drink it , . '
said clapping his hand upon his pocket .
'Burn my body , if he is n't more trouble than a whole family of .
Drink it , you perwerse imp ; drink it ! '
Frightened by the menacing gestures of the two men , hastily swallowed the contents of the glass , and immediately fell into a violent fit of coughing : which delighted and , and even drew a smile from the surly .
This done , and having satisfied his appetite ( could eat nothing but a small crust of bread which they made him swallow ) , the two men laid themselves down on chairs for a short nap .
Oliver retained his stool by the fire ; wrapped in a blanket , stretched himself on the floor : close outside the fender .
They slept , or appeared to sleep , for some time ; nobody stirring but , who rose once or twice to throw coals on the fire .
fell into a heavy doze : imagining himself straying along the gloomy lanes , or wandering about the dark churchyard , or retracing some one or other of the scenes of the past day : when he was roused by jumping up and declaring it was half-past one .
In an instant , the other two were on their legs , and all were actively engaged in busy preparation .
Sikes and his companion enveloped their necks and chins in large dark shawls , and drew on their great-coats ; , opening a cupboard , brought forth several articles , which he hastily crammed into the pockets .
'Barkers for me , , ' said .
'Here they are , ' replied , producing a pair of pistols .
replied , stowing them away .
' I 've got 'em , ' replied .
'Crape , keys , centre-bits , darkies -- nothing forgotten ? '
inquired Toby : fastening a small crowbar to a loop inside the skirt of his coat .
'All right , ' rejoined his companion .
'Bring them bits of timber , .
That 's the time of day . '
With these words , he took a thick stick from 's hands , who , having delivered another to , busied himself in fastening on 's cape .
said , holding out his hand .
: who was completely stupified by the unwonted exercise , and the air , and the drink which had been forced upon him : put his hand mechanically into that which extended for the purpose .
'Take his other hand , , ' said .
The man went to the door , and returned to announce that all was quiet .
The two robbers issued forth with between them .
, having made all fast , rolled himself up as before , and was soon asleep again .
It was now intensely dark .
The fog was much heavier than it had been in the early part of the night ; and the atmosphere was so damp , that , although no rain fell , 's hair and eyebrows , within a few minutes after leaving the house , had become stiff with the half-frozen moisture that was floating about .
They crossed the bridge , and kept on towards the lights which he had seen before .
They were at no great distance off ; and , as they walked pretty briskly , they soon arrived at .
'Slap through the town , ' whispered ; 'there 'll be nobody in the way , to-night , to see us . '
acquiesced ; and they hurried through the main street of the little town , which at that late hour was wholly deserted .
A dim light shone at intervals from some bed-room window ; and the hoarse barking of dogs occasionally broke the silence of the night .
But there was nobody abroad .
They had cleared the town , as the church-bell struck two .
Quickening their pace , they turned up a road upon the left hand .
After walking about a quarter of a mile , they stopped before a detached house surrounded by a wall : to the top of which , , scarcely pausing to take breath , climbed in a twinkling .
'The boy next , ' said .
'Hoist him up ; I 'll catch hold of him . '
Before had time to look round , had caught him under the arms ; and in three or four seconds he and were lying on the grass on the other side .
And they stole cautiously towards the house .
And now , for the first time , , well-nigh mad with grief and terror , saw that housebreaking and robbery , if not murder , were the objects of the expedition .
He clasped his hands together , and involuntarily uttered a subdued exclamation of horror .
A mist came before his eyes ; the cold sweat stood upon his ashy face ; his limbs failed him ; and he sank upon his knees .
murmured , trembling with rage , and drawing the pistol from his pocket ; 'Get up , or I 'll strew your brains upon the grass . '
for 's sake let me go ! '
cried ; 'let me run away and die in the fields .
I will never come near ; never , never !
pray have mercy on me , and do not make me steal .
For the love of all the bright Angels that rest in , have mercy upon me ! '
The man to whom this appeal was made , swore a dreadful oath , and had cocked the pistol , when , striking it from his grasp , placed his hand upon the boy 's mouth , and dragged him to the house .
cried the man ; 'it wo n't answer here .
Say another word , and I 'll do your business myself with a crack on the head .
That makes no noise , and is quite as certain , and more genteel .
Here , , wrench the shutter open .
He 's game enough now , I 'll engage .
I 've seen older hands of his age took the same way , for a minute or two , on a cold night . '
, invoking terrific imprecations upon 's head for sending on such an errand , plied the crowbar vigorously , but with little noise .
After some delay , and some assistance from , the shutter to which he had referred , swung open on its hinges .
It was a little lattice window , about five feet and a half above the ground , at the back of the house : which belonged to a scullery , or small brewing-place , at the end of the passage .
The aperture was so small , that the inmates had probably not thought it worth while to defend it more securely ; but it was large enough to admit a boy of 's size , nevertheless .
A very brief exercise of 's art , sufficed to overcome the fastening of the lattice ; and it soon stood wide open also .
'Now listen , you young limb , ' whispered , drawing a dark lantern from his pocket , and throwing the glare full on 's face ; ' I 'm a going to put you through there .
Take this light ; go softly up the steps straight afore you , and along the little hall , to the street door ; unfasten it , and let us in . '
'There 's a bolt at the top , you wo n't be able to reach , ' interposed Toby .
'Stand upon one of the hall chairs .
There are three there , , with a jolly large blue unicorn and gold pitchfork on 'em : which is the old lady 's arms . '
replied , with a threatening look .
'The room-door is open , is it ? '
'Wide , ' replied , after peeping in to satisfy himself .
'The game of that is , that they always leave it open with a catch , so that the dog , who 's got a bed in here , may walk up and down the passage when he feels wakeful .
'ticed him away to-night .
Although spoke in a scarcely audible whisper , and laughed without noise , imperiously commanded him to be silent , and to get to work .
complied , by first producing his lantern , and placing it on the ground ; then by planting himself firmly with his head against the wall beneath the window , and his hands upon his knees , so as to make a step of his back .
This was no sooner done , than , mounting upon him , put Oliver gently through the window with his feet first ; and , without leaving hold of his collar , planted him safely on the floor inside .
'Take this lantern , ' said , looking into the room .
'You see the stairs afore you ? '
Oliver , more dead than alive , gasped out , 'Yes . '
, pointing to the street-door with the pistol-barrel , briefly advised him to take notice that he was within shot all the way ; and that if he faltered , he would fall dead that instant .
'It 's done in a minute , ' said , in the same low whisper .
'Directly I leave go of you , do your work .
'Nothing , ' said , releasing his hold of .
In the short time he had had to collect his senses , the boy had firmly resolved that , whether he died in the attempt or not , he would make one effort to dart upstairs from the hall , and alarm the family .
Filled with this idea , he advanced at once , but stealthily .
Scared by the sudden breaking of the dead stillness of the place , and by a loud cry which followed it , let his lantern fall , and knew not whether to advance or fly .
The cry was repeated -- a light appeared -- a vision of two terrified half-dressed men at the top of the stairs swam before his eyes -- a flash -- a loud noise -- a smoke -- a crash somewhere , but where he knew not , -- and he staggered back .
had disappeared for an instant ; but he was up again , and had him by the collar before the smoke had cleared away .
He fired his own pistol after the men , who were already retreating ; and dragged the boy up .
'Clasp your arm tighter , ' said , as he drew him through the window .
'Give me a shawl here .
Then came the loud ringing of a bell , mingled with the noise of fire-arms , and the shouts of men , and the sensation of being carried over uneven ground at a rapid pace .
And then , the noises grew confused in the distance ; and a cold deadly feeling crept over the boy 's heart ; and he saw or heard no more .
The night was bitter cold .
The snow lay on the ground , frozen into a hard thick crust , so that only the heaps that had drifted into byways and corners were affected by the sharp wind that howled abroad : which , as if expending increased fury on such prey as it found , caught it savagely up in clouds , and , whirling it into a thousand misty eddies , scattered it in air .
, dark , and piercing cold , it was a night for the well-housed and fed to draw round the bright fire and thank God they were at home ; and for the homeless , starving wretch to lay him down and die .
Many hunger-worn outcasts close their eyes in our bare streets , at such times , who , let their crimes have been what they may , can hardly open them in a more bitter world .
was the aspect of out-of-doors affairs , when Mrs. Corney , the matron of the workhouse to which our readers have been already introduced as the birthplace of , sat herself down before a cheerful fire in her own little room , and glanced , with no small degree of complacency , at a small round table : on which stood a tray of corresponding size , furnished with all necessary materials for the most grateful meal that matrons enjoy .
In fact , Mrs. was about to solace herself with a cup of tea .
As she glanced from the table to the fireplace , where the smallest of all possible kettles was singing a small song in a small voice , her inward satisfaction evidently increased , -- so much so , indeed , that Mrs. smiled .
said the matron , leaning her elbow on the table , and looking reflectively at the fire ; ' I 'm sure we have all on us a great deal to be grateful for !
A great deal , if we did but know it .
Mrs. shook her head mournfully , as if deploring the mental blindness of those paupers who did not know it ; and thrusting a silver spoon ( private property ) into the inmost recesses of a two-ounce tin tea-caddy , proceeded to make the tea .
How slight a thing will disturb the equanimity of our frail minds !
The black teapot , being very small and easily filled , ran over while Mrs. was moralising ; and the water slightly scalded Mrs. 's hand .
said the worthy matron , setting it down very hastily on the hob ; ' a little stupid thing , that only holds a couple of cups !
What use is it of , to anybody !
Except , ' said Mrs. Corney , pausing , 'except to a poor desolate creature like me .
With these words , the matron dropped into her chair , and , once more resting her elbow on the table , thought of her solitary fate .
The small teapot , and the single cup , had awakened in her mind sad recollections of ( who had not been dead more than five-and-twenty years ) ; and she was overpowered .
' I shall never get another ! '
said Mrs. Corney , pettishly ; ' I shall never get another -- like him . '
Whether this remark bore reference to the husband , or the teapot , is uncertain .
It might have been the latter ; for Mrs. looked at it as she spoke ; and took it up afterwards .
She had just tasted her first cup , when she was disturbed by a soft tap at the room-door .
'Oh , come in with you ! '
'Some of the old women dying , I suppose .
They always die when I 'm at meals .
Do n't stand there , letting the cold air in , do n't .
'Nothing , ma'am , nothing , ' replied a man 's voice .
exclaimed the matron , in a much sweeter tone , 'is that Mr .
'At your service , ma'am , ' said , who had been stopping outside to rub his shoes clean , and to shake the snow off his coat ; and who now made his appearance , bearing the cocked hat in one hand and a bundle in the other .
'Shall I shut the door , ma'am ? '
The lady modestly hesitated to reply , lest there should be any impropriety in holding an interview with , with closed doors .
Bumble taking advantage of the hesitation , and being very cold himself , shut it without permission .
'Hard weather , , ' said the matron .
'Hard , indeed , ma'am , ' replied the beadle .
We have given away , Mrs. Corney , we have given away a matter of twenty quartern loaves and a cheese and a half , this very blessed afternoon ; and yet them paupers are not contented . '
When would they be , Mr .
said the matron , sipping her tea .
'Why here 's one man that , in consideration of his wife and large family , has a quartern loaf and a good pound of cheese , full weight .
Not a copper farthing 's worth of it !
What does he do , ma'am , but ask for a few coals ; if it 's only a pocket handkerchief full , he says !
What would he do with coals ?
Toast his cheese with 'em and then come back for more .
That 's the way with these people , ma'am ; give 'em a apron full of coals to-day , and they 'll come back for another , the day after to-morrow , as brazen as alabaster . '
The matron expressed her entire concurrence in this intelligible simile ; and the beadle went on .
' I never , ' said , 'see anything like the pitch it 's got to .
The day afore yesterday , a man -- you have been a married woman , ma'am , and I may mention it to you -- a man , with hardly a rag upon his back ( here Mrs. looked at the floor ) , goes to our overseer 's door when he has got company coming to dinner ; and says , he must be relieved , Mrs. Corney .
As he would n't go away , and shocked the company very much , our overseer sent him out a pound of potatoes and half a pint of oatmeal .
says the ungrateful villain , `` what 's the use of _this_ to me ?
You might as well give me a pair of iron spectacles ! ''
`` Very good , '' says our overseer , taking 'em away again , `` you wo n't get anything else here . ''
`` Then I 'll die in the streets ! ''
`` Oh no , you wo n't , '' says our overseer . '
So like , was n't it ? '
'Well , ma'am , ' rejoined the beadle , 'he went away ; and he _did_ die in the streets .
There 's a obstinate pauper for you ! '
'It beats anything I could have believed , ' observed the matron emphatically .
'But do n't you think out-of-door relief a very bad thing , any way , ?
You 're a gentleman of experience , and ought to know .
, ' said the beadle , smiling as men smile who are conscious of superior information , 'out-of-door relief , properly managed : properly managed , ma'am : is the porochial safeguard .
The great principle of out-of-door relief is , to give the paupers exactly what they do n't want ; and then they get tired of coming . '
'Well , that is a good one , too ! '
Betwixt you and me , ma'am , ' returned , 'that 's the great principle ; and that 's the reason why , if you look at any cases that get into them owdacious newspapers , you 'll always observe that sick families have been relieved with slices of cheese .
That 's the rule now , Mrs. Corney , all over the country .
But , however , ' said the beadle , stopping to unpack his bundle , 'these are official secrets , ma'am ; not to be spoken of ; except , as I may say , among the porochial officers , such as ourselves .
This is the port wine , ma'am , that the board ordered for the infirmary ; real , fresh , genuine port wine ; only out of the cask this forenoon ; clear as a bell , and no sediment ! '
Having held the first bottle up to the light , and shaken it well to test its excellence , placed them both on top of a chest of drawers ; folded the handkerchief in which they had been wrapped ; put it carefully in his pocket ; and took up his hat , as if to go .
'You 'll have a very cold walk , , ' said the matron .
'It blows , ma'am , ' replied , turning up his coat-collar , 'enough to cut one 's ears off . '
The matron looked , from the little kettle , to the beadle , who was moving towards the door ; and as the beadle coughed , preparatory to bidding her good-night , bashfully inquired whether -- whether he would n't take a cup of tea ?
instantaneously turned back his collar again ; laid his hat and stick upon a chair ; and drew another chair up to the table .
As he slowly seated himself , he looked at the lady .
She fixed her eyes upon the little teapot .
coughed again , and slightly smiled .
Mrs. rose to get another cup and saucer from the closet .
As she sat down , her eyes once again encountered those of the gallant beadle ; she coloured , and applied herself to the task of making his tea .
Again coughed -- louder this time than he had coughed yet .
inquired the matron , taking up the sugar-basin .
'Very sweet , indeed , ma'am , ' replied .
He fixed his eyes on Mrs. Corney as he said this ; and if ever a beadle looked tender , was that beadle at that moment .
The tea was made , and handed in silence .
, having spread a handkerchief over his knees to prevent the crumbs from sullying the splendour of his shorts , began to eat and drink ; varying these amusements , occasionally , by fetching a deep sigh ; which , however , had no injurious effect upon his appetite , but , on the contrary , rather seemed to facilitate his operations in the tea and toast department .
'You have a cat , ma'am , I see , ' said , glancing at one who , in the centre of her family , was basking before the fire ; 'and kittens too , I declare ! '
' I am so fond of them , , you ca n't think , ' replied the matron .
'They 're _so_ happy , _so_ frolicsome , and _so_ cheerful , that they are quite companions for me . '
'Very nice animals , ma'am , ' replied , approvingly ; 'so very domestic . '
rejoined the matron with enthusiasm ; 'so fond of their home too , that it 's quite a pleasure , I 'm sure . '
, ma'am , ' said , slowly , and marking the time with his teaspoon , ' I mean to say this , ma'am ; that any cat , or kitten , that could live with you , ma'am , and _not_ be fond of its home , must be a ass , ma'am . '
'It 's of no use disguising facts , ma'am , ' said , slowly flourishing the teaspoon with a kind of amorous dignity which made him doubly impressive ; ' I would drown it myself , with pleasure . '
'Then you 're a cruel man , ' said the matron vivaciously , as she held out her hand for the beadle 's cup ; 'and a very hard-hearted man besides . '
resigned his cup without another word ; squeezed Mrs. 's little finger as she took it ; and inflicting two open-handed slaps upon his laced waistcoat , gave a mighty sigh , and hitched his chair a very little morsel farther from the fire .
It was a round table ; and as Mrs. Corney and had been sitting opposite each other , with no great space between them , and fronting the fire , it will be seen that , in receding from the fire , and still keeping at the table , increased the distance between himself and Mrs. Corney ; which proceeding , some prudent readers will doubtless be disposed to admire , and to consider an act of great heroism on 's part : he being in some sort tempted by time , place , and opportunity , to give utterance to certain soft nothings , which however well they may become the lips of the light and thoughtless , do seem immeasurably beneath the dignity of judges of the land , members of parliament , ministers of state , lord mayors , and other great public functionaries , but more particularly beneath the stateliness and gravity of a beadle : who ( as is well known ) should be the sternest and most inflexible among them all .
Whatever were 's intentions , however ( and no doubt they were of the best ) : it unfortunately happened , as has been twice before remarked , that the table was a round one ; consequently , moving his chair by little and little , soon began to diminish the distance between himself and the matron ; and , continuing to travel round the outer edge of the circle , brought his chair , in time , close to that in which the matron was seated .
Indeed , the two chairs touched ; and when they did so , stopped .
Now , if the matron had moved her chair to the right , she would have been scorched by the fire ; and if to the left , she must have fallen into 's arms ; so ( being a discreet matron , and no doubt foreseeing these consequences at a glance ) she remained where she was , and handed another cup of tea .
said , stirring his tea , and looking up into the matron 's face ; 'are _you_ hard-hearted , Mrs .
exclaimed the matron , 'what a very curious question from a single man .
What can you want to know for , Mr .
The beadle drank his tea to the last drop ; finished a piece of toast ; whisked the crumbs off his knees ; wiped his lips ; and deliberately kissed the matron .
cried that discreet lady in a whisper ; for the fright was so great , that she had quite lost her voice , 'Mr .
made no reply ; but in a slow and dignified manner , put his arm round the matron 's waist .
As the lady had stated her intention of screaming , of course she would have screamed at this additional boldness , but that the exertion was rendered unnecessary by a hasty knocking at the door : which was no sooner heard , than darted , with much agility , to the wine bottles , and began dusting them with great violence : while the matron sharply demanded who was there .
It is worthy of remark , as a curious physical instance of the efficacy of a sudden surprise in counteracting the effects of extreme fear , that her voice had quite recovered all its official asperity .
'If you please , mistress , ' said a withered old female pauper , hideously ugly : putting her head in at the door , 'Old is a-going fast . '
'Well , what 's that to me ? '
' I ca n't keep her alive , can I ? '
'No , no , mistress , ' replied the old woman , 'nobody can ; she 's far beyond the reach of help .
I 've seen a many people die ; little babes and great strong men ; and I know when death 's a-coming , well enough .
But she 's troubled in her mind : and when the fits are not on her , -- and that 's not often , for she is dying very hard , -- she says she has got something to tell , which you must hear .
She 'll never die quiet till you come , mistress . '
At this intelligence , the worthy Mrs. muttered a variety of invectives against old women who could n't even die without purposely annoying their betters ; and , muffling herself in a thick shawl which she hastily caught up , briefly requested to stay till she came back , lest anything particular should occur .
Bidding the messenger walk fast , and not be all night hobbling up the stairs , she followed her from the room with a very ill grace , scolding all the way .
's conduct on being left to himself , was rather inexplicable .
He opened the closet , counted the teaspoons , weighed the sugar-tongs , closely inspected a silver milk-pot to ascertain that it was of the genuine metal , and , having satisfied his curiosity on these points , put on his cocked hat corner-wise , and danced with much gravity four distinct times round the table .
Having gone through this very extraordinary performance , he took off the cocked hat again , and , spreading himself before the fire with his back towards it , seemed to be mentally engaged in taking an exact inventory of the furniture .
It was no unfit messenger of death , who had disturbed the quiet of the matron 's room .
Her body was bent by age ; her limbs trembled with palsy ; her face , distorted into a mumbling leer , resembled more the grotesque shaping of some wild pencil , than the work of 's hand .
How few of 's faces are left alone to gladden us with their beauty !
The cares , and sorrows , and hungerings , of the world , change them as they change hearts ; and it is only when those passions sleep , and have lost their hold for ever , that the troubled clouds pass off , and leave 's surface clear .
It is a common thing for the countenances of the dead , even in that fixed and rigid state , to subside into the long-forgotten expression of sleeping infancy , and settle into the very look of early life ; so calm , so peaceful , do they grow again , that those who knew them in their happy childhood , kneel by the coffin 's side in awe , and see the Angel even upon earth .
The old crone tottered along the passages , and up the stairs , muttering some indistinct answers to the chidings of her companion ; being at length compelled to pause for breath , she gave the light into her hand , and remained behind to follow as she might : while the more nimble superior made her way to the room where the sick woman lay .
It was a bare garret-room , with a dim light burning at the farther end .
There was another old woman watching by the bed ; the parish apothecary 's apprentice was standing by the fire , making a toothpick out of a quill .
'Cold night , Mrs. Corney , ' said this young gentleman , as the matron entered .
'Very cold , indeed , sir , ' replied the mistress , in her most civil tones , and dropping a curtsey as she spoke .
'You should get better coals out of your contractors , ' said the apothecary 's deputy , breaking a lump on the top of the fire with the rusty poker ; 'these are not at all the sort of thing for a cold night . '
'They 're the board 's choosing , sir , ' returned the matron .
'The least they could do , would be to keep us pretty warm : for our places are hard enough . '
The conversation was here interrupted by a moan from the sick woman .
said the young mag , turning his face towards the bed , as if he had previously quite forgotten the patient , 'it 's all U.P .
'It is , is it , sir ? '
'If she lasts a couple of hours , I shall be surprised , ' said the apothecary 's apprentice , intent upon the toothpick 's point .
'It 's a break-up of the system altogether .
Is she dozing , old lady ? '
The attendant stooped over the bed , to ascertain ; and nodded in the affirmative .
'Then perhaps she 'll go off in that way , if you do n't make a row , ' said the young man .
'Put the light on the floor .
She wo n't see it there . '
The attendant did as she was told : shaking her head meanwhile , to intimate that the woman would not die so easily ; having done so , she resumed her seat by the side of the other nurse , who had by this time returned .
The mistress , with an expression of impatience , wrapped herself in her shawl , and sat at the foot of the bed .
The apothecary 's apprentice , having completed the manufacture of the toothpick , planted himself in front of the fire and made good use of it for ten minutes or so : when apparently growing rather dull , he wished Mrs. Corney joy of her job , and took himself off on tiptoe .
When they had sat in silence for some time , the two old women rose from the bed , and crouching over the fire , held out their withered hands to catch the heat .
The flame threw a ghastly light on their shrivelled faces , and made their ugliness appear terrible , as , in this position , they began to converse in a low voice .
'Did she say any more , dear , while I was gone ? '
'Not a word , ' replied the other .
'She plucked and tore at her arms for a little time ; but I held her hands , and she soon dropped off .
She has n't much strength in her , so I easily kept her quiet .
I ai n't so weak for an old woman , although I am on parish allowance ; no , no ! '
'Did she drink the hot wine the doctor said she was to have ? '
' I tried to get it down , ' rejoined the other .
'But her teeth were tight set , and she clenched the mug so hard that it was as much as I could do to get it back again .
So I drank it ; and it did me good ! '
Looking cautiously round , to ascertain that they were not overheard , the two hags cowered nearer to the fire , and chuckled heartily .
' I mind the time , ' said the first speaker , 'when she would have done the same , and made rare fun of it afterwards . '
'Ay , that she would , ' rejoined the other ; 'she had a merry heart .
' A many , many , beautiful corpses she laid out , as nice and neat as waxwork .
My old eyes have seen them -- ay , and those old hands touched them too ; for I have helped her , scores of times . '
Stretching forth her trembling fingers as she spoke , the old creature shook them exultingly before her face , and fumbling in her pocket , brought out an old time-discoloured tin snuff-box , from which she shook a few grains into the outstretched palm of her companion , and a few more into her own .
While they were thus employed , the matron , who had been impatiently watching until the dying woman should awaken from her stupor , joined them by the fire , and sharply asked how long she was to wait ?
'Not long , mistress , ' replied the second woman , looking up into her face .
'We have none of us long to wait for .
He 'll be here soon enough for us all . '
'Hold your tongue , you doting idiot ! '
'You , , tell me ; has she been in this way before ? '
'Often , ' answered the first woman .
'But will never be again , ' added the second one ; 'that is , she 'll never wake again but once -- and mind , mistress , that wo n't be for long ! '
'Long or short , ' said the matron , snappishly , 'she wo n't find me here when she does wake ; take care , both of you , how you worry me again for nothing .
It 's no part of my duty to see all the old women in the house die , and I wo n't -- that 's more .
that , you impudent old harridans .
If you make a fool of me again , I 'll soon cure you , I warrant you ! '
She was bouncing away , when a cry from the two women , who had turned towards the bed , caused her to look round .
The patient had raised herself upright , and was stretching her arms towards them .
she cried , in a hollow voice .
said one of the women , stooping over her .
' I 'll never lie down again alive ! '
Let me whisper in your ear . '
She clutched the matron by the arm , and forcing her into a chair by the bedside , was about to speak , when looking round , she caught sight of the two old women bending forward in the attitude of eager listeners .
'Turn them away , ' said the woman , drowsily ; 'make haste !
The two old crones , chiming in together , began pouring out many piteous lamentations that the poor dear was too far gone to know her best friends ; and were uttering sundry protestations that they would never leave her , when the superior pushed them from the room , closed the door , and returned to the bedside .
On being excluded , the old ladies changed their tone , and cried through the keyhole that old was drunk ; which , indeed , was not unlikely ; since , in addition to a moderate dose of opium prescribed by the apothecary , she was labouring under the effects of a final taste of gin-and-water which had been privily administered , in the openness of their hearts , by the worthy old ladies themselves .
'Now listen to me , ' said the dying woman aloud , as if making a great effort to revive one latent spark of energy .
'In this very room -- in this very bed -- I once nursed a pretty young creetur ' , that was brought into the house with her feet cut and bruised with walking , and all soiled with dust and blood .
She gave birth to a boy , and died .
Let me think -- what was the year again ! '
'Never mind the year , ' said the impatient auditor ; 'what about her ? '
'Ay , ' murmured the sick woman , relapsing into her former drowsy state , 'what about her ? -- what about -- I know ! '
she cried , jumping fiercely up : her face flushed , and her eyes starting from her head -- ' I robbed her , so I did !
She was n't cold -- I tell you she was n't cold , when I stole it ! '
'Stole what , for 's sake ? '
cried the matron , with a gesture as if she would call for help .
replied the woman , laying her hand over the other 's mouth .
'The only thing she had .
She wanted clothes to keep her warm , and food to eat ; but she had kept it safe , and had it in her bosom .
It was gold , I tell you !
gold , that might have saved her life ! '
echoed the matron , bending eagerly over the woman as she fell back .
'Go on , go on -- yes -- what of it ?
'She charged me to keep it safe , ' replied the woman with a groan , 'and trusted me as the only woman about her .
I stole it in my heart when she first showed it me hanging round her neck ; and the child 's death , perhaps , is on me besides !
They would have treated him better , if they had known it all ! '
'The boy grew so like his mother , ' said the woman , rambling on , and not heeding the question , 'that I could never forget it when I saw his face .
She was so young , too !
; there 's more to tell .
I have not told you all , have I ? '
'No , no , ' replied the matron , inclining her head to catch the words , as they came more faintly from the dying woman .
'Be quick , or it may be too late ! '
'The mother , ' said the woman , making a more violent effort than before ; 'the mother , when the pains of death first came upon her , whispered in my ear that if her baby was born alive , and thrived , the day might come when it would not feel so much disgraced to hear its poor young mother named .
she said , folding her thin hands together , `` whether it be boy or girl , raise up some friends for it in this troubled world , and take pity upon a lonely desolate child , abandoned to its mercy ! '' '
'They _called_ him Oliver , ' replied the woman , feebly .
'The gold I stole was -- ' 'Yes , yes -- what ? '
She was bending eagerly over the woman to hear her reply ; but drew back , instinctively , as she once again rose , slowly and stiffly , into a sitting posture ; then , clutching the coverlid with both hands , muttered some indistinct sounds in her throat , and fell lifeless on the bed .
* * * * * 'Stone dead ! '
said one of the old women , hurrying in as soon as the door was opened .
'And nothing to tell , after all , ' rejoined the matron , walking carelessly away .
The two crones , to all appearance , too busily occupied in the preparations for their dreadful duties to make any reply , were left alone , hovering about the body .
While these things were passing in the country workhouse , sat in the old den -- the same from which had been removed by the girl -- brooding over a dull , smoky fire .
He held a pair of bellows upon his knee , with which he had apparently been endeavouring to rouse it into more cheerful action ; but he had fallen into deep thought ; and with his arms folded on them , and his chin resting on his thumbs , fixed his eyes , abstractedly , on the rusty bars .
At a table behind him sat the , , and : all intent upon a game of whist ; the Artful taking dummy against and .
The countenance of the first-named gentleman , peculiarly intelligent at all times , acquired great additional interest from his close observance of the game , and his attentive perusal of 's hand ; upon which , from time to time , as occasion served , he bestowed a variety of earnest glances : wisely regulating his own play by the result of his observations upon his neighbour 's cards .
It being a cold night , the wore his hat , as , indeed , was often his custom within doors .
He also sustained a clay pipe between his teeth , which he only removed for a brief space when he deemed it necessary to apply for refreshment to a quart pot upon the table , which stood ready filled with gin-and-water for the accommodation of the company .
was also attentive to the play ; but being of a more excitable nature than his accomplished friend , it was observable that he more frequently applied himself to the gin-and-water , and moreover indulged in many jests and irrelevant remarks , all highly unbecoming a scientific rubber .
Indeed , the , presuming upon their close attachment , more than once took occasion to reason gravely with his companion upon these improprieties ; all of which remonstrances , received in extremely good part ; merely requesting his friend to be 'blowed , ' or to insert his head in a sack , or replying with some other neatly-turned witticism of a similar kind , the happy application of which , excited considerable admiration in the mind of .
It was remarkable that the latter gentleman and his partner invariably lost ; and that the circumstance , so far from angering , appeared to afford him the highest amusement , inasmuch as he laughed most uproariously at the end of every deal , and protested that he had never seen such a jolly game in all his born days .
'That 's two doubles and the rub , ' said , with a very long face , as he drew half-a-crown from his waistcoat-pocket .
' I never see such a feller as you , ; you win everything .
Even when we 've good cards , and I ca n't make nothing of 'em . '
Either the master or the manner of this remark , which was made very ruefully , delighted so much , that his consequent shout of laughter roused the Jew from his reverie , and induced him to inquire what was the matter .
' I wish you had watched the play .
has n't won a point ; and I went partners with him against the and dumb . '
said the Jew , with a grin , which sufficiently demonstrated that he was at no loss to understand the reason .
'Try 'em again , ; try 'em again . '
'No more of it for me , thank 'ee , , ' replied ; ' I 've had enough .
That 'ere has such a run of luck that there 's no standing again ' him . '
my dear , ' replied the Jew , 'you must get up very early in the morning , to win against the Dodger . '
said ; 'you must put your boots on over-night , and have a telescope at each eye , and a opera-glass between your shoulders , if you want to come over him . '
received these handsome compliments with much philosophy , and offered to cut any gentleman in company , for the first picture-card , at a shilling at a time .
Nobody accepting the challenge , and his pipe being by this time smoked out , he proceeded to amuse himself by sketching a ground-plan of on the table with the piece of chalk which had served him in lieu of counters ; whistling , meantime , with peculiar shrillness .
'How precious dull you are , ! '
said the , stopping short when there had been a long silence ; and addressing .
'What do you think he 's thinking of , ? '
'How should I know , my dear ? '
replied the Jew , looking round as he plied the bellows .
'About his losses , maybe ; or the little retirement in the country that he 's just left , eh ?
Is that it , my dear ? '
'Not a bit of it , ' replied the , stopping the subject of discourse as was about to reply .
'What do _you_ say , ? '
'_I_ should say , ' replied , with a grin , 'that he was uncommon sweet upon .
Thoroughly overpowered with the notion of being the victim of the tender passion , threw himself back in his chair with such violence , that he lost his balance , and pitched over upon the floor ; where ( the accident abating nothing of his merriment ) he lay at full length until his laugh was over , when he resumed his former position , and began another laugh .
'Never mind him , my dear , ' said the Jew , winking at , and giving a reproving tap with the nozzle of the bellows .
up to her , .
'What I mean to say , , ' replied , very red in the face , 'is , that that is n't anything to anybody here . '
'No more it is , ' replied the ; 'Charley will talk .
Do n't mind him , my dear ; do n't mind him .
Do as she bids you , , and you will make your fortune . '
'So I _do_ do as she bids me , ' replied ; ' I should n't have been milled , if it had n't been for her advice .
But it turned out a good job for you ; did n't it , !
And what 's six weeks of it ?
It must come , some time or another , and why not in the winter time when you do n't want to go out a-walking so much ; eh , ? '
'Ah , to be sure , my dear , ' replied the Jew .
'You would n't mind it again , , would you , ' asked the , winking upon and the Jew , 'if was all right ? '
' I mean to say that I should n't , ' replied , angrily .
Who 'll say as much as that , I should like to know ; eh , ? '
'Nobody , my dear , ' replied the ; 'not a soul , .
I do n't know one of 'em that would do it besides you ; not one of 'em , my dear . '
' I might have got clear off , if I 'd split upon her ; might n't I , ? '
angrily pursued the poor half-witted dupe .
' A word from me would have done it ; would n't it , ? '
'To be sure it would , my dear , ' replied the Jew .
'But I did n't blab it ; did I , ? '
demanded , pouring question upon question with great volubility .
'No , no , to be sure , ' replied the ; 'you were too stout-hearted for that .
A deal too stout , my dear ! '
'Perhaps I was , ' rejoined , looking round ; 'and if I was , what 's to laugh at , in that ; eh , ? '
The Jew , perceiving that was considerably roused , hastened to assure him that nobody was laughing ; and to prove the gravity of the company , appealed to , the principal offender .
But , unfortunately , , in opening his mouth to reply that he was never more serious in his life , was unable to prevent the escape of such a violent roar , that the abused , without any preliminary ceremonies , rushed across the room and aimed a blow at the offender ; who , being skilful in evading pursuit , ducked to avoid it , and chose his time so well that it lighted on the chest of the merry old gentleman , and caused him to stagger to the wall , where he stood panting for breath , while looked on in intense dismay .
cried the Dodger at this moment , ' I heard the tinkler . '
Catching up the light , he crept softly upstairs .
The bell was rung again , with some impatience , while the party were in darkness .
After a short pause , the reappeared , and whispered mysteriously .
The nodded in the affirmative , and , shading the flame of the candle with his hand , gave Bates a private intimation , in dumb show , that he had better not be funny just then .
Having performed this friendly office , he fixed his eyes on the 's face , and awaited his directions .
The old man bit his yellow fingers , and meditated for some seconds ; his face working with agitation the while , as if he dreaded something , and feared to know the worst .
At length he raised his head .
The pointed to the floor above , and made a gesture , as if to leave the room .
'Yes , ' said the Jew , answering the mute inquiry ; 'bring him down .
This brief direction to , and his recent antagonist , was softly and immediately obeyed .
There was no sound of their whereabout , when the descended the stairs , bearing the light in his hand , and followed by a man in a coarse smock-frock ; who , after casting a hurried glance round the room , pulled off a large wrapper which had concealed the lower portion of his face , and disclosed : all haggard , unwashed , and unshorn : the features of flash .
said this worthy , nodding to the Jew .
'Pop that shawl away in my castor , , so that I may know where to find it when I cut ; that 's the time of day !
You 'll be a fine young cracksman afore the old file now . '
With these words he pulled up the smock-frock ; and , winding it round his middle , drew a chair to the fire , and placed his feet upon the hob .
'See there , , ' he said , pointing disconsolately to his top boots ; 'not a drop of Day and since you know when ; not a bubble of blacking , by !
But do n't look at me in that way , man .
I ca n't talk about business till I 've eat and drank ; so produce the sustainance , and let 's have a quiet fill-out for the first time these three days ! '
The Jew motioned to the Dodger to place what eatables there were , upon the table ; and , seating himself opposite the housebreaker , waited his leisure .
To judge from appearances , was by no means in a hurry to open the conversation .
At first , the Jew contented himself with patiently watching his countenance , as if to gain from its expression some clue to the intelligence he brought ; but in vain .
He looked tired and worn , but there was the same complacent repose upon his features that they always wore : and through dirt , and beard , and whisker , there still shone , unimpaired , the self-satisfied smirk of flash .
Then the Jew , in an agony of impatience , watched every morsel he put into his mouth ; pacing up and down the room , meanwhile , in irrepressible excitement .
It was all of no use .
continued to eat with the utmost outward indifference , until he could eat no more ; then , ordering the Dodger out , he closed the door , mixed a glass of spirits and water , and composed himself for talking .
'First and foremost , , ' said .
interposed the Jew , drawing up his chair .
stopped to take a draught of spirits and water , and to declare that the gin was excellent ; then placing his feet against the low mantelpiece , so as to bring his boots to about the level of his eye , he quietly resumed .
'First and foremost , , ' said the housebreaker , 'how 's ? '
screamed the Jew , starting from his seat .
'Why , you do n't mean to say -- ' began , turning pale .
cried the Jew , stamping furiously on the ground .
Why have they not been here ? '
'The crack failed , ' said faintly .
' I know it , ' replied the Jew , tearing a newspaper from his pocket and pointing to it .
'They fired and hit the boy .
We cut over the fields at the back , with him between us -- straight as the crow flies -- through hedge and ditch .
the whole country was awake , and the dogs upon us . '
'Bill had him on his back , and scudded like the wind .
We stopped to take him between us ; his head hung down , and he was cold .
They were close upon our heels ; every man for himself , and each from the gallows !
We parted company , and left the youngster lying in a ditch .
Alive or dead , that 's all I know about him . '
The Jew stopped to hear no more ; but uttering a loud yell , and twining his hands in his hair , rushed from the room , and from the house .
The old man had gained the street corner , before he began to recover the effect of 's intelligence .
He had relaxed nothing of his unusual speed ; but was still pressing onward , in the same wild and disordered manner , when the sudden dashing past of a carriage : and a boisterous cry from the foot passengers , who saw his danger : drove him back upon the pavement .
Avoiding , as much as was possible , all the main streets , and skulking only through the by-ways and alleys , he at length emerged on .
Here he walked even faster than before ; nor did he linger until he had again turned into a court ; when , as if conscious that he was now in his proper element , he fell into his usual shuffling pace , and seemed to breathe more freely .
Near to the spot on which and meet , opens , upon the right hand as you come out of the , a narrow and dismal alley , leading to .
In its filthy shops are exposed for sale huge bunches of second-hand silk handkerchiefs , of all sizes and patterns ; for here reside the traders who purchase them from pick-pockets .
Hundreds of these handkerchiefs hang dangling from pegs outside the windows or flaunting from the door-posts ; and the shelves , within , are piled with them .
Confined as the limits of are , it has its barber , its coffee-shop , its beer-shop , and its fried-fish warehouse .
It is a commercial colony of itself : the emporium of petty larceny : visited at early morning , and setting-in of dusk , by silent merchants , who traffic in dark back-parlours , and who go as strangely as they come .
Here , the clothesman , the shoe-vamper , and the rag-merchant , display their goods , as sign-boards to the petty thief ; here , stores of old iron and bones , and heaps of mildewy fragments of woollen-stuff and linen , rust and rot in the grimy cellars .
It was into this place that the Jew turned .
He was well known to the sallow denizens of the lane ; for such of them as were on the look-out to buy or sell , nodded , familiarly , as he passed along .
He replied to their salutations in the same way ; but bestowed no closer recognition until he reached the further end of the alley ; when he stopped , to address a salesman of small stature , who had squeezed as much of his person into a child 's chair as the chair would hold , and was smoking a pipe at his warehouse door .
'Why , the sight of you , , would cure the hoptalmy ! '
said this respectable trader , in acknowledgment of the 's inquiry after his health .
'The neighbourhood was a little too hot , Lively , ' said , elevating his eyebrows , and crossing his hands upon his shoulders .
'Well , I 've heerd that complaint of it , once or twice before , ' replied the trader ; 'but it soon cools down again ; do n't you find it so ? '
nodded in the affirmative .
Pointing in the direction of , he inquired whether any one was up yonder to-night .
'Let me see , ' pursued the merchant , reflecting .
'Yes , there 's some half-dozen of 'em gone in , that I knows .
I do n't think your friend 's there . '
'Sikes is not , I suppose ? '
inquired the Jew , with a disappointed countenance .
'_Non istwentus_ , as the lawyers say , ' replied the little man , shaking his head , and looking amazingly sly .
'Have you got anything in my line to-night ? '
'Nothing to-night , ' said the Jew , turning away .
'Are you going up to the , ? '
cried the little man , calling after him .
I do n't mind if I have a drop there with you ! '
But as the Jew , looking back , waved his hand to intimate that he preferred being alone ; and , moreover , as the little man could not very easily disengage himself from the chair ; the sign of the was , for a time , bereft of the advantage of 's presence .
By the time he had got upon his legs , the had disappeared ; so , after ineffectually standing on tiptoe , in the hope of catching sight of him , again forced himself into the little chair , and , exchanging a shake of the head with a lady in the opposite shop , in which doubt and mistrust were plainly mingled , resumed his pipe with a grave demeanour .
The , or rather the ; which was the sign by which the establishment was familiarly known to its patrons : was the public-house in which and his dog have already figured .
Merely making a sign to a man at the bar , walked straight upstairs , and opening the door of a room , and softly insinuating himself into the chamber , looked anxiously about : shading his eyes with his hand , as if in search of some particular person .
The room was illuminated by two gas-lights ; the glare of which was prevented by the barred shutters , and closely-drawn curtains of faded red , from being visible outside .
The ceiling was blackened , to prevent its colour from being injured by the flaring of the lamps ; and the place was so full of dense tobacco smoke , that at first it was scarcely possible to discern anything more .
By degrees , however , as some of it cleared away through the open door , an assemblage of heads , as confused as the noises that greeted the ear , might be made out ; and as the eye grew more accustomed to the scene , the spectator gradually became aware of the presence of a numerous company , male and female , crowded round a long table : at the upper end of which , sat a chairman with a hammer of office in his hand ; while a professional gentleman with a bluish nose , and his face tied up for the benefit of a toothache , presided at a jingling piano in a remote corner .
As stepped softly in , the professional gentleman , running over the keys by way of prelude , occasioned a general cry of order for a song ; which having subsided , a young lady proceeded to entertain the company with a ballad in four verses , between each of which the accompanyist played the melody all through , as loud as he could .
When this was over , the chairman gave a sentiment , after which , the professional gentleman on the chairman 's right and left volunteered a duet , and sang it , with great applause .
It was curious to observe some faces which stood out prominently from among the group .
There was the chairman himself , ( the landlord of the house , ) a coarse , rough , heavy built fellow , who , while the songs were proceeding , rolled his eyes hither and thither , and , seeming to give himself up to joviality , had an eye for everything that was done , and an ear for everything that was said -- and sharp ones , too .
Near him were the singers : receiving , with professional indifference , the compliments of the company , and applying themselves , in turn , to a dozen proffered glasses of spirits and water , tendered by their more boisterous admirers ; whose countenances , expressive of almost every vice in almost every grade , irresistibly attracted the attention , by their very repulsiveness .
, ferocity , and drunkeness in all its stages , were there , in their strongest aspect ; and women : some with the last lingering tinge of their early freshness almost fading as you looked : others with every mark and stamp of their sex utterly beaten out , and presenting but one loathsome blank of profligacy and crime ; some mere girls , others but young women , and none past the prime of life ; formed the darkest and saddest portion of this dreary picture .
, troubled by no grave emotions , looked eagerly from face to face while these proceedings were in progress ; but apparently without meeting that of which he was in search .
Succeeding , at length , in catching the eye of the man who occupied the chair , he beckoned to him slightly , and left the room , as quietly as he had entered it .
'What can I do for you , Mr .
inquired the man , as he followed him out to the landing .
They 'll be delighted , every one of 'em . '
The Jew shook his head impatiently , and said in a whisper , 'Is _he_ here ? '
'And no news of ? '
'None , ' replied the landlord of the ; for it was he .
'He wo n't stir till it 's all safe .
on it , they 're on the scent down there ; and that if he moved , he 'd blow upon the thing at once .
He 's all right enough , is , else I should have heard of him .
I 'll pound it , that 's managing properly .
Let him alone for that . '
'Will _he_ be here to-night ? '
asked the Jew , laying the same emphasis on the pronoun as before .
, ' replied the man , drawing a gold watch from his fob ; ' I expected him here before now .
If you 'll wait ten minutes , he 'll be -- ' 'No , no , ' said the Jew , hastily ; as though , however desirous he might be to see the person in question , he was nevertheless relieved by his absence .
'Tell him I came here to see him ; and that he must come to me to-night .
As he is not here , to-morrow will be time enough . '
'Not a word now , ' said the Jew , descending the stairs .
' I say , ' said the other , looking over the rails , and speaking in a hoarse whisper ; 'what a time this would be for a sell !
I 've got here : so drunk , that a boy might take him ! '
But it 's not 's time , ' said the Jew , looking up .
'Phil has something more to do , before we can afford to part with him ; so go back to the company , my dear , and tell them to lead merry lives -- _while they last_ .
The landlord reciprocated the old man 's laugh ; and returned to his guests .
The Jew was no sooner alone , than his countenance resumed its former expression of anxiety and thought .
After a brief reflection , he called a hack-cabriolet , and bade the man drive towards .
He dismissed him within some quarter of a mile of 's residence , and performed the short remainder of the distance , on foot .
'Now , ' muttered the Jew , as he knocked at the door , 'if there is any deep play here , I shall have it out of you , my girl , cunning as you are . '
She was in her room , the woman said .
crept softly upstairs , and entered it without any previous ceremony .
The girl was alone ; lying with her head upon the table , and her hair straggling over it .
'She has been drinking , ' thought the Jew , cooly , 'or perhaps she is only miserable . '
The old man turned to close the door , as he made this reflection ; the noise thus occasioned , roused the girl .
She eyed his crafty face narrowly , as she inquired to his recital of 's story .
When it was concluded , she sank into her former attitude , but spoke not a word .
She pushed the candle impatiently away ; and once or twice as she feverishly changed her position , shuffled her feet upon the ground ; but this was all .
During the silence , the Jew looked restlessly about the room , as if to assure himself that there were no appearances of having covertly returned .
Apparently satisfied with his inspection , he coughed twice or thrice , and made as many efforts to open a conversation ; but the girl heeded him no more than if he had been made of stone .
At length he made another attempt ; and rubbing his hands together , said , in his most conciliatory tone , 'And where should you think was now , my dear ? '
The girl moaned out some half intelligible reply , that she could not tell ; and seemed , from the smothered noise that escaped her , to be crying .
'And the boy , too , ' said the Jew , straining his eyes to catch a glimpse of her face .
Left in a ditch , ; only think ! '
'The child , ' said the girl , suddenly looking up , 'is better where he is , than among us ; and if no harm comes to Bill from it , I hope he lies dead in the ditch and that his young bones may rot there . '
cried the Jew , in amazement .
'Ay , I do , ' returned the girl , meeting his gaze .
' I shall be glad to have him away from my eyes , and to know that the worst is over .
I ca n't bear to have him about me .
The sight of him turns me against myself , and all of you . '
'It 's no fault of yours , if I am not !
You 'd never have me anything else , if you had your will , except now ; -- the humour does n't suit you , does n't it ? '
responded the girl , with a laugh .
exclaimed the Jew , exasperated beyond all bounds by his companion 's unexpected obstinacy , and the vexation of the night , ' I _will_ change it !
Listen to me , you drab .
Listen to me , who with six words , can strangle as surely as if I had his bull 's throat between my fingers now .
If he comes back , and leaves the boy behind him ; if he gets off free , and dead or alive , fails to restore him to me ; murder him yourself if you would have him escape .
And do it the moment he sets foot in this room , or mind me , it will be too late ! '
pursued , mad with rage .
'When the boy 's worth hundreds of pounds to me , am I to lose what chance threw me in the way of getting safely , through the whims of a drunken gang that I could whistle away the lives of !
And me bound , too , to a born devil that only wants the will , and has the power to , to -- ' Panting for breath , the old man stammered for a word ; and in that instant checked the torrent of his wrath , and changed his whole demeanour .
A moment before , his clenched hands had grasped the air ; his eyes had dilated ; and his face grown livid with passion ; but now , he shrunk into a chair , and , cowering together , trembled with the apprehension of having himself disclosed some hidden villainy .
After a short silence , he ventured to look round at his companion .
He appeared somewhat reassured , on beholding her in the same listless attitude from which he had first roused her .
croaked the Jew , in his usual voice .
'Did you mind me , dear ? '
'Do n't worry me now , ! '
replied the girl , raising her head languidly .
'If has not done it this time , he will another .
He has done many a good job for you , and will do many more when he can ; and when he ca n't he wo n't ; so no more about that . '
'Regarding this boy , my dear ? '
said the Jew , rubbing the palms of his hands nervously together .
'The boy must take his chance with the rest , ' interrupted , hastily ; 'and I say again , I hope he is dead , and out of harm 's way , and out of yours , -- that is , if comes to no harm .
And if got clear off , 's pretty sure to be safe ; for 's worth two of any time . '
'And about what I was saying , my dear ? '
observed the Jew , keeping his glistening eye steadily upon her .
'You must say it all over again , if it 's anything you want me to do , ' rejoined ; 'and if it is , you had better wait till to-morrow .
You put me up for a minute ; but now I 'm stupid again . '
put several other questions : all with the same drift of ascertaining whether the girl had profited by his unguarded hints ; but , she answered them so readily , and was withal so utterly unmoved by his searching looks , that his original impression of her being more than a trifle in liquor , was confirmed .
, indeed , was not exempt from a failing which was very common among the 's female pupils ; and in which , in their tenderer years , they were rather encouraged than checked .
Her disordered appearance , and a wholesale perfume of which pervaded the apartment , afforded strong confirmatory evidence of the justice of the 's supposition ; and when , after indulging in the temporary display of violence above described , she subsided , first into dullness , and afterwards into a compound of feelings : under the influence of which she shed tears one minute , and in the next gave utterance to various exclamations of 'Never say die ! '
and divers calculations as to what might be the amount of the odds so long as a lady or gentleman was happy , , who had had considerable experience of such matters in his time , saw , with great satisfaction , that she was very far gone indeed .
Having eased his mind by this discovery ; and having accomplished his twofold object of imparting to the girl what he had , that night , heard , and of ascertaining , with his own eyes , that had not returned , again turned his face homeward : leaving his young friend asleep , with her head upon the table .
It was within an hour of midnight .
The weather being dark , and piercing cold , he had no great temptation to loiter .
The sharp wind that scoured the streets , seemed to have cleared them of passengers , as of dust and mud , for few people were abroad , and they were to all appearance hastening fast home .
It blew from the right quarter for the Jew , however , and straight before it he went : trembling , and shivering , as every fresh gust drove him rudely on his way .
He had reached the corner of his own street , and was already fumbling in his pocket for the door-key , when a dark figure emerged from a projecting entrance which lay in deep shadow , and , crossing the road , glided up to him unperceived .
whispered a voice close to his ear .
said the Jew , turning quickly round , 'is that -- ' 'Yes ! '
' I have been lingering here these two hours .
Where the devil have you been ? '
'On your business , my dear , ' replied the Jew , glancing uneasily at his companion , and slackening his pace as he spoke .
'On your business all night . '
said the stranger , with a sneer .
'Well ; and what 's come of it ? '
'Nothing good , ' said the Jew .
said the stranger , stopping short , and turning a startled look on his companion .
The Jew shook his head , and was about to reply , when the stranger , interrupting him , motioned to the house , before which they had by this time arrived : remarking , that he had better say what he had got to say , under cover : for his blood was chilled with standing about so long , and the wind blew through him .
looked as if he could have willingly excused himself from taking home a visitor at that unseasonable hour ; and , indeed , muttered something about having no fire ; but his companion repeating his request in a peremptory manner , he unlocked the door , and requested him to close it softly , while he got a light .
'It 's as dark as the grave , ' said the man , groping forward a few steps .
'Shut the door , ' whispered from the end of the passage .
As he spoke , it closed with a loud noise .
'That was n't my doing , ' said the other man , feeling his way .
'The wind blew it to , or it shut of its own accord : one or the other .
Look sharp with the light , or I shall knock my brains out against something in this confounded hole . '
stealthily descended the kitchen stairs .
After a short absence , he returned with a lighted candle , and the intelligence that was asleep in the back room below , and that the boys were in the front one .
Beckoning the man to follow him , he led the way upstairs .
'We can say the few words we 've got to say in here , my dear , ' said the Jew , throwing open a door on the first floor ; 'and as there are holes in the shutters , and we never show lights to our neighbours , we 'll set the candle on the stairs .
With those words , the Jew , stooping down , placed the candle on an upper flight of stairs , exactly opposite to the room door .
This done , he led the way into the apartment ; which was destitute of all movables save a broken arm-chair , and an old couch or sofa without covering , which stood behind the door .
Upon this piece of furniture , the stranger sat himself with the air of a weary man ; and the Jew , drawing up the arm-chair opposite , they sat face to face .
It was not quite dark ; the door was partially open ; and the candle outside , threw a feeble reflection on the opposite wall .
They conversed for some time in whispers .
Though nothing of the conversation was distinguishable beyond a few disjointed words here and there , a listener might easily have perceived that appeared to be defending himself against some remarks of the stranger ; and that the latter was in a state of considerable irritation .
They might have been talking , thus , for a quarter of an hour or more , when -- by which name the had designated the strange man several times in the course of their colloquy -- said , raising his voice a little , ' I tell you again , it was badly planned .
Why not have kept him here among the rest , and made a sneaking , snivelling pickpocket of him at once ? '
exclaimed the Jew , shrugging his shoulders .
'Why , do you mean to say you could n't have done it , if you had chosen ? '
'Have n't you done it , with other boys , scores of times ?
If you had had patience for a twelvemonth , at most , could n't you have got him convicted , and sent safely out of the kingdom ; perhaps for life ? '
'Whose turn would that have served , my dear ? '
'But not mine , ' said the Jew , submissively .
'He might have become of use to me .
When there are two parties to a bargain , it is only reasonable that the interests of both should be consulted ; is it , my good friend ? '
' I saw it was not easy to train him to the business , ' replied the ; 'he was not like other boys in the same circumstances . '
muttered the man , 'or he would have been a thief , long ago . '
' I had no hold upon him to make him worse , ' pursued the Jew , anxiously watching the countenance of his companion .
'His hand was not in .
I had nothing to frighten him with ; which we always must have in the beginning , or we labour in vain .
Send him out with the and ?
We had enough of that , at first , my dear ; I trembled for us all . '
'_That_ was not my doing , ' observed .
'And I do n't quarrel with it now ; because , if it had never happened , you might never have clapped eyes on the boy to notice him , and so led to the discovery that it was him you were looking for .
I got him back for you by means of the girl ; and then _she_ begins to favour him . '
'Why , we ca n't afford to do that just now , my dear , ' replied the Jew , smiling ; 'and , besides , that sort of thing is not in our way ; or , one of these days , I might be glad to have it done .
I know what these girls are , , well .
As soon as the boy begins to harden , she 'll care no more for him , than for a block of wood .
You want him made a thief .
If he is alive , I can make him one from this time ; and , if -- if -- ' said the Jew , drawing nearer to the other , -- 'it 's not likely , mind , -- but if the worst comes to the worst , and he is dead -- ' 'It 's no fault of mine if he is ! '
interposed the other man , with a look of terror , and clasping the 's arm with trembling hands .
I had no hand in it .
Anything but his death , I told you from the first .
I wo n't shed blood ; it 's always found out , and haunts a man besides .
If they shot him dead , I was not the cause ; do you hear me ?
cried the Jew , grasping the coward round the body , with both arms , as he sprung to his feet .
replied the man , glaring at the opposite wall .
I saw the shadow of a woman , in a cloak and bonnet , pass along the wainscot like a breath ! '
The released his hold , and they rushed tumultuously from the room .
The candle , wasted by the draught , was standing where it had been placed .
It showed them only the empty staircase , and their own white faces .
They listened intently : a profound silence reigned throughout the house .
'It 's your fancy , ' said the Jew , taking up the light and turning to his companion .
' I 'll swear I saw it ! '
'It was bending forward when I saw it first ; and when I spoke , it darted away . '
The Jew glanced contemptuously at the pale face of his associate , and , telling him he could follow , if he pleased , ascended the stairs .
They looked into all the rooms ; they were cold , bare , and empty .
They descended into the passage , and thence into the cellars below .
The green damp hung upon the low walls ; the tracks of the snail and slug glistened in the light of the candle ; but all was still as death .
'What do you think now ? '
said the Jew , when they had regained the passage .
'Besides ourselves , there 's not a creature in the house except and the boys ; and they 're safe enough .
As a proof of the fact , the drew forth two keys from his pocket ; and explained , that when he first went downstairs , he had locked them in , to prevent any intrusion on the conference .
This accumulated testimony effectually staggered .
His protestations had gradually become less and less vehement as they proceeded in their search without making any discovery ; and , now , he gave vent to several very grim laughs , and confessed it could only have been his excited imagination .
He declined any renewal of the conversation , however , for that night : suddenly remembering that it was past one o'clock .
And so the amiable couple parted .
As it would be , by no means , seemly in a humble author to keep so mighty a personage as a beadle waiting , with his back to the fire , and the skirts of his coat gathered up under his arms , until such time as it might suit his pleasure to relieve him ; and as it would still less become his station , or his gallantry to involve in the same neglect a lady on whom that beadle had looked with an eye of tenderness and affection , and in whose ear he had whispered sweet words , which , coming from such a quarter , might well thrill the bosom of maid or matron of whatsoever degree ; the historian whose pen traces these words -- trusting that he knows his place , and that he entertains a becoming reverence for those upon earth to whom high and important authority is delegated -- hastens to pay them that respect which their position demands , and to treat them with all that duteous ceremony which their exalted rank , and ( by consequence ) great virtues , imperatively claim at his hands .
Towards this end , indeed , he had purposed to introduce , in this place , a dissertation touching the divine right of beadles , and elucidative of the position , that a beadle can do no wrong : which could not fail to have been both pleasurable and profitable to the right-minded reader but which he is unfortunately compelled , by want of time and space , to postpone to some more convenient and fitting opportunity ; on the arrival of which , he will be prepared to show , that a beadle properly constituted : that is to say , a parochial beadle , attached to a parochial workhouse , and attending in his official capacity the parochial church : is , in right and virtue of his office , possessed of all the excellences and best qualities of humanity ; and that to none of those excellences , can mere companies ' beadles , or court-of-law beadles , or even chapel-of-ease beadles ( save the last , and they in a very lowly and inferior degree ) , lay the remotest sustainable claim .
had re-counted the teaspoons , re-weighed the sugar-tongs , made a closer inspection of the milk-pot , and ascertained to a nicety the exact condition of the furniture , down to the very horse-hair seats of the chairs ; and had repeated each process full half a dozen times ; before he began to think that it was time for Mrs. Corney to return .
Thinking begets thinking ; as there were no sounds of Mrs. 's approach , it occured to that it would be an innocent and virtuous way of spending the time , if he were further to allay his curiousity by a cursory glance at the interior of Mrs. 's chest of drawers .
Having listened at the keyhole , to assure himself that nobody was approaching the chamber , , beginning at the bottom , proceeded to make himself acquainted with the contents of the three long drawers : which , being filled with various garments of good fashion and texture , carefully preserved between two layers of old newspapers , speckled with dried lavender : seemed to yield him exceeding satisfaction .
, in course of time , at the right-hand corner drawer ( in which was the key ) , and beholding therein a small padlocked box , which , being shaken , gave forth a pleasant sound , as of the chinking of coin , returned with a stately walk to the fireplace ; and , resuming his old attitude , said , with a grave and determined air , ' I 'll do it ! '
He followed up this remarkable declaration , by shaking his head in a waggish manner for ten minutes , as though he were remonstrating with himself for being such a pleasant dog ; and then , he took a view of his legs in profile , with much seeming pleasure and interest .
He was still placidly engaged in this latter survey , when Mrs. Corney , hurrying into the room , threw herself , in a breathless state , on a chair by the fireside , and covering her eyes with one hand , placed the other over her heart , and gasped for breath .
, ' said , stooping over the matron , 'what is this , ma'am ?
answer me : I 'm on -- on -- ' , in his alarm , could not immediately think of the word 'tenterhooks , ' so he said 'broken bottles . '
cried the lady , ' I have been so dreadfully put out ! '
exclaimed ; 'who has dared to -- ?
said , checking himself , with native majesty , 'this is them wicious paupers ! '
'It 's dreadful to think of ! '
'Then _don't_ think of it , ma'am , ' rejoined .
' I ca n't help it , ' whimpered the lady .
'Then take something , ma'am , ' said soothingly .
' A little of the wine ? '
The top shelf in the right-hand corner -- oh ! '
Uttering these words , the good lady pointed , distractedly , to the cupboard , and underwent a convulsion from internal spasms .
rushed to the closet ; and , snatching a pint green-glass bottle from the shelf thus incoherently indicated , filled a tea-cup with its contents , and held it to the lady 's lips .
' I 'm better now , ' said Mrs. Corney , falling back , after drinking half of it .
raised his eyes piously to the ceiling in thankfulness ; and , bringing them down again to the brim of the cup , lifted it to his nose .
'Peppermint , ' exclaimed Mrs. Corney , in a faint voice , smiling gently on the beadle as she spoke .
There 's a little -- a little something else in it . '
tasted the medicine with a doubtful look ; smacked his lips ; took another taste ; and put the cup down empty .
'It 's very comforting , ' said Mrs. Corney .
'Very much so indeed , ma'am , ' said the beadle .
As he spoke , he drew a chair beside the matron , and tenderly inquired what had happened to distress her .
' I am a foolish , excitable , weak creetur . '
'Not weak , ma'am , ' retorted , drawing his chair a little closer .
'Are you a weak creetur , Mrs .
'We are all weak creeturs , ' said Mrs. Corney , laying down a general principle .
'So we are , ' said the beadle .
was said on either side , for a minute or two afterwards .
By the expiration of that time , had illustrated the position by removing his left arm from the back of Mrs. 's chair , where it had previously rested , to Mrs. 's apron-string , round which it gradually became entwined .
'We are all weak creeturs , ' said .
'Do n't sigh , Mrs. Corney , ' said .
' I ca n't help it , ' said Mrs. Corney .
'This is a very comfortable room , ma'am , ' said looking round .
'Another room , and this , ma'am , would be a complete thing . '
'It would be too much for one , ' murmured the lady .
'But not for two , ma'am , ' rejoined , in soft accents .
Mrs. drooped her head , when the beadle said this ; the beadle drooped his , to get a view of Mrs. 's face .
Mrs. Corney , with great propriety , turned her head away , and released her hand to get at her pocket-handkerchief ; but insensibly replaced it in that of .
'The board allows you coals , do n't they , Mrs .
inquired the beadle , affectionately pressing her hand .
candles , ' replied Mrs. Corney , slightly returning the pressure .
'Coals , candles , and house-rent free , ' said .
'Oh , Mrs. Corney , what an Angel you are ! '
The lady was not proof against this burst of feeling .
She sank into 's arms ; and that gentleman in his agitation , imprinted a passionate kiss upon her chaste nose .
'You know that is worse to-night , my fascinator ? '
'Yes , ' replied Mrs. Corney , bashfully .
'He ca n't live a week , the doctor says , ' pursued .
'He is the master of this establishment ; his death will cause a wacancy ; that wacancy must be filled up .
Oh , Mrs. Corney , what a prospect this opens !
What a opportunity for a jining of hearts and housekeepings ! '
said , bending over the bashful beauty .
'The one little , little , little word , my blessed ? '
'One more , ' pursued the beadle ; 'compose your darling feelings for only one more .
When is it to come off ? '
Mrs. Corney twice essayed to speak : and twice failed .
At length summoning up courage , she threw her arms around 's neck , and said , it might be as soon as ever he pleased , and that he was ' a irresistible duck . '
Matters being thus amicably and satisfactorily arranged , the contract was solemnly ratified in another teacupful of the peppermint mixture ; which was rendered the more necessary , by the flutter and agitation of the lady 's spirits .
While it was being disposed of , she acquainted with the old woman 's decease .
'Very good , ' said that gentleman , sipping his peppermint ; ' I 'll call at 's as I go home , and tell him to send to-morrow morning .
Was it that as frightened you , love ? '
'It was n't anything particular , dear , ' said the lady evasively .
'It must have been something , love , ' urged .
'Wo n't you tell your own B. ? '
'Not now , ' rejoined the lady ; 'one of these days .
'It was n't any impudence from any of them male paupers as -- ' 'No , no , love ! '
'If I thought it was , ' continued ; 'if I thought as any one of 'em had dared to lift his wulgar eyes to that lovely countenance -- ' 'They would n't have dared to do it , love , ' responded the lady .
said , clenching his fist .
'Let me see any man , porochial or extra-porochial , as would presume to do it ; and I can tell him that he would n't do it a second time ! '
Unembellished by any violence of gesticulation , this might have seemed no very high compliment to the lady 's charms ; but , as accompanied the threat with many warlike gestures , she was much touched with this proof of his devotion , and protested , with great admiration , that he was indeed a dove .
The dove then turned up his coat-collar , and put on his cocked hat ; and , having exchanged a long and affectionate embrace with his future partner , once again braved the cold wind of the night : merely pausing , for a few minutes , in the male paupers ' ward , to abuse them a little , with the view of satisfying himself that he could fill the office of workhouse-master with needful acerbity .
Assured of his qualifications , left the building with a light heart , and bright visions of his future promotion : which served to occupy his mind until he reached the shop of the undertaker .
Now , and Mrs. Sowerberry having gone out to tea and supper : and not being at any time disposed to take upon himself a greater amount of physical exertion than is necessary to a convenient performance of the two functions of eating and drinking , the shop was not closed , although it was past the usual hour of shutting-up .
tapped with his cane on the counter several times ; but , attracting no attention , and beholding a light shining through the glass-window of the little parlour at the back of the shop , he made bold to peep in and see what was going forward ; and when he saw what was going forward , he was not a little surprised .
The cloth was laid for supper ; the table was covered with bread and butter , plates and glasses ; a porter-pot and a wine-bottle .
At the upper end of the table , lolled negligently in an easy-chair , with his legs thrown over one of the arms : an open clasp-knife in one hand , and a mass of buttered bread in the other .
beside him stood , opening oysters from a barrel : which condescended to swallow , with remarkable avidity .
A more than ordinary redness in the region of the young gentleman 's nose , and a kind of fixed wink in his right eye , denoted that he was in a slight degree intoxicated ; these symptoms were confirmed by the intense relish with which he took his oysters , for which nothing but a strong appreciation of their cooling properties , in cases of internal fever , could have sufficiently accounted .
'Here 's a delicious fat one , , dear ! '
said ; 'try him , do ; only this one . '
'What a delicious thing is a oyster ! '
remarked , after he had swallowed it .
'What a pity it is , a number of 'em should ever make you feel uncomfortable ; is n't it , ? '
'It 's quite a cruelty , ' said .
'So it is , ' acquiesced .
'A n't yer fond of oysters ? '
' I like to see you eat 'em , dear , better than eating 'em myself . '
said , reflectively ; 'how queer ! '
'Here 's one with such a beautiful , delicate beard ! '
' I ca n't manage any more , ' said .
Come here , , and I 'll kiss yer . '
said , bursting into the room .
uttered a scream , and hid her face in her apron .
, without making any further change in his position than suffering his legs to reach the ground , gazed at the beadle in drunken terror .
'Say it again , you wile , owdacious fellow ! '
'How dare you mention such a thing , sir ?
And how dare you encourage him , you insolent minx ?
exclaimed , in strong indignation .
' I did n't mean to do it ! '
'She 's always a-kissing of me , whether I like it , or not . '
'Oh , , ' cried , reproachfully .
'Yer are ; yer know yer are ! '
'She 's always a-doin ' of it , , sir ; she chucks me under the chin , please , sir ; and makes all manner of love ! '
, you shut up the shop ; say another word till your master comes home , at your peril ; and , when he does come home , tell him that said he was to send a old woman 's shell after breakfast to-morrow morning .
cried , holding up his hands .
'The sin and wickedness of the lower orders in this porochial district is frightful !
If do n't take their abominable courses under consideration , this country 's ruined , and the character of the peasantry gone for ever ! '
With these words , the beadle strode , with a lofty and gloomy air , from the undertaker 's premises .
And now that we have accompanied him so far on his road home , and have made all necessary preparations for the old woman 's funeral , let us set on foot a few inquires after young , and ascertain whether he be still lying in the ditch where left him .
muttered , grinding his teeth .
' I wish I was among some of you ; you 'd howl the hoarser for it . '
As growled forth this imprecation , with the most desperate ferocity that his desperate nature was capable of , he rested the body of the wounded boy across his bended knee ; and turned his head , for an instant , to look back at his pursuers .
There was little to be made out , in the mist and darkness ; but the loud shouting of men vibrated through the air , and the barking of the neighbouring dogs , roused by the sound of the alarm bell , resounded in every direction .
cried the robber , shouting after , who , making the best use of his long legs , was already ahead .
The repetition of the word , brought to a dead stand-still .
For he was not quite satisfied that he was beyond the range of pistol-shot ; and was in no mood to be played with .
'Bear a hand with the boy , ' cried , beckoning furiously to his confederate .
made a show of returning ; but ventured , in a low voice , broken for want of breath , to intimate considerable reluctance as he came slowly along .
cried , laying the boy in a dry ditch at his feet , and drawing a pistol from his pocket .
'Do n't play booty with me . '
At this moment the noise grew louder .
Sikes , again looking round , could discern that the men who had given chase were already climbing the gate of the field in which he stood ; and that a couple of dogs were some paces in advance of them .
cried ; 'drop the kid , and show 'em your heels . '
With this parting advice , , preferring the chance of being shot by his friend , to the certainty of being taken by his enemies , fairly turned tail , and darted off at full speed .
clenched his teeth ; took one look around ; threw over the prostrate form of , the cape in which he had been hurriedly muffled ; ran along the front of the hedge , as if to distract the attention of those behind , from the spot where the boy lay ; paused , for a second , before another hedge which met it at right angles ; and whirling his pistol high into the air , cleared it at a bound , and was gone .
cried a tremulous voice in the rear .
The dogs , who , in common with their masters , seemed to have no particular relish for the sport in which they were engaged , readily answered to the command .
Three men , who had by this time advanced some distance into the field , stopped to take counsel together .
'My advice , or , leastways , I should say , my _orders_ , is , ' said the fattest man of the party , 'that we 'mediately go home again . '
' I am agreeable to anything which is agreeable to , ' said a shorter man ; who was by no means of a slim figure , and who was very pale in the face , and very polite : as frightened men frequently are .
' I should n't wish to appear ill-mannered , gentlemen , ' said the third , who had called the dogs back , 'Mr .
'Certainly , ' replied the shorter man ; 'and whatever says , it is n't our place to contradict him .
No , no , I know my sitiwation !
my stars , I know my sitiwation . '
To tell the truth , the little man _did_ seem to know his situation , and to know perfectly well that it was by no means a desirable one ; for his teeth chattered in his head as he spoke .
'You are afraid , , ' said .
'You 're a falsehood , , ' said .
'You 're a lie , , ' said .
Now , these four retorts arose from 's taunt ; and 's taunt had arisen from his indignation at having the responsibility of going home again , imposed upon himself under cover of a compliment .
The third man brought the dispute to a close , most philosophically .
' I 'll tell you what it is , gentlemen , ' said he , 'we 're all afraid . '
'Speak for yourself , sir , ' said , who was the palest of the party .
'So I do , ' replied the man .
'It 's natural and proper to be afraid , under such circumstances .
'So am I , ' said ; 'only there 's no call to tell a man he is , so bounceably . '
These frank admissions softened , who at once owned that _he_ was afraid ; upon which , they all three faced about , and ran back again with the completest unanimity , until ( who had the shortest wind of the party , as was encumbered with a pitchfork ) most handsomely insisted on stopping , to make an apology for his hastiness of speech .
'But it 's wonderful , ' said , when he had explained , 'what a man will do , when his blood is up .
I should have committed murder -- I know I should -- if we 'd caught one of them rascals . '
As the other two were impressed with a similar presentiment ; and as their blood , like his , had all gone down again ; some speculation ensued upon the cause of this sudden change in their temperament .
' I know what it was , ' said ; 'it was the gate . '
' I should n't wonder if it was , ' exclaimed , catching at the idea .
'You may depend upon it , ' said , 'that that gate stopped the flow of the excitement .
I felt all mine suddenly going away , as I was climbing over it . '
By a remarkable coincidence , the other two had been visited with the same unpleasant sensation at that precise moment .
It was quite obvious , therefore , that it was the gate ; especially as there was no doubt regarding the time at which the change had taken place , because all three remembered that they had come in sight of the robbers at the instant of its occurance .
This dialogue was held between the two men who had surprised the burglars , and a travelling tinker who had been sleeping in an outhouse , and who had been roused , together with his two mongrel curs , to join in the pursuit .
acted in the double capacity of butler and steward to the old lady of the mansion ; was a lad of all-work : who , having entered her service a mere child , was treated as a promising young boy still , though he was something past thirty .
Encouraging each other with such converse as this ; but , keeping very close together , notwithstanding , and looking apprehensively round , whenever a fresh gust rattled through the boughs ; the three men hurried back to a tree , behind which they had left their lantern , lest its light should inform the thieves in what direction to fire .
Catching up the light , they made the best of their way home , at a good round trot ; and long after their dusky forms had ceased to be discernible , the light might have been seen twinkling and dancing in the distance , like some exhalation of the damp and gloomy atmosphere through which it was swiftly borne .
The air grew colder , as day came slowly on ; and the mist rolled along the ground like a dense cloud of smoke .
The grass was wet ; the pathways , and low places , were all mire and water ; the damp breath of an unwholesome wind went languidly by , with a hollow moaning .
Still , lay motionless and insensible on the spot where had left him .
The air become more sharp and piercing , as its first dull hue -- the death of night , rather than the birth of day -- glimmered faintly in the sky .
The objects which had looked dim and terrible in the darkness , grew more and more defined , and gradually resolved into their familiar shapes .
The rain came down , thick and fast , and pattered noisily among the leafless bushes .
But , felt it not , as it beat against him ; for he still lay stretched , helpless and unconscious , on his bed of clay .
At length , a low cry of pain broke the stillness that prevailed ; and uttering it , the boy awoke .
His left arm , rudely bandaged in a shawl , hung heavy and useless at his side ; the bandage was saturated with blood .
He was so weak , that he could scarcely raise himself into a sitting posture ; when he had done so , he looked feebly round for help , and groaned with pain .
Trembling in every joint , from cold and exhaustion , he made an effort to stand upright ; but , shuddering from head to foot , fell prostrate on the ground .
After a short return of the stupor in which he had been so long plunged , : urged by a creeping sickness at his heart , which seemed to warn him that if he lay there , he must surely die : got upon his feet , and essayed to walk .
His head was dizzy , and he staggered to and fro like a drunken man .
But he kept up , nevertheless , and , with his head drooping languidly on his breast , went stumbling onward , he knew not whither .
And now , hosts of bewildering and confused ideas came crowding on his mind .
He seemed to be still walking between and , who were angrily disputing -- for the very words they said , sounded in his ears ; and when he caught his own attention , as it were , by making some violent effort to save himself from falling , he found that he was talking to them .
Then , he was alone with , plodding on as on the previous day ; and as shadowy people passed them , he felt the robber 's grasp upon his wrist .
Suddenly , he started back at the report of firearms ; there rose into the air , loud cries and shouts ; lights gleamed before his eyes ; all was noise and tumult , as some unseen hand bore him hurriedly away .
Through all these rapid visions , there ran an undefined , uneasy consciousness of pain , which wearied and tormented him incessantly .
Thus he staggered on , creeping , almost mechanically , between the bars of gates , or through hedge-gaps as they came in his way , until he reached a road .
Here the rain began to fall so heavily , that it roused him .
He looked about , and saw that at no great distance there was a house , which perhaps he could reach .
Pitying his condition , they might have compassion on him ; and if they did not , it would be better , he thought , to die near human beings , than in the lonely open fields .
He summoned up all his strength for one last trial , and bent his faltering steps towards it .
As he drew nearer to this house , a feeling come over him that he had seen it before .
He remembered nothing of its details ; but the shape and aspect of the building seemed familiar to him .
On the grass inside , he had fallen on his knees last night , and prayed the two men 's mercy .
It was the very house they had attempted to rob .
felt such fear come over him when he recognised the place , that , for the instant , he forgot the agony of his wound , and thought only of flight .
He could scarcely stand : and if he were in full possession of all the best powers of his slight and youthful frame , whither could he fly ?
He pushed against the garden-gate ; it was unlocked , and swung open on its hinges .
He tottered across the lawn ; climbed the steps ; knocked faintly at the door ; and , his whole strength failing him , sunk down against one of the pillars of the little portico .
It happened that about this time , , , and the tinker , were recruiting themselves , after the fatigues and terrors of the night , with tea and sundries , in the kitchen .
Not that it was 's habit to admit to too great familiarity the humbler servants : towards whom it was rather his wont to deport himself with a lofty affability , which , while it gratified , could not fail to remind them of his superior position in society .
But , death , fires , and burglary , make all men equals ; so sat with his legs stretched out before the kitchen fender , leaning his left arm on the table , while , with his right , he illustrated a circumstantial and minute account of the robbery , to which his bearers ( but especially the cook and housemaid , who were of the party ) listened with breathless interest .
'It was about half-past two , ' said , 'or I would n't swear that it might n't have been a little nearer three , when I woke up , and , turning round in my bed , as it might be so , ( here turned round in his chair , and pulled the corner of the table-cloth over him to imitate bed-clothes , ) I fancied I heerd a noise . '
At this point of the narrative the cook turned pale , and asked the housemaid to shut the door : who asked , who asked the tinker , who pretended not to hear . '
-- Heerd a noise , ' continued .
' I says , at first , `` This is illusion '' ; and was composing myself off to sleep , when I heerd the noise again , distinct . '
'What sort of a noise ? '
' A kind of a busting noise , ' replied , looking round him .
'More like the noise of powdering a iron bar on a nutmeg-grater , ' suggested .
'It was , when _you_ heerd it , sir , ' rejoined ; 'but , at this time , it had a busting sound .
I turned down the clothes ' ; continued , rolling back the table-cloth , 'sat up in bed ; and listened . '
The cook and housemaid simultaneously ejaculated 'Lor ! '
and drew their chairs closer together .
' I heerd it now , quite apparent , ' resumed .
' '' Somebody , '' I says , `` is forcing of a door , or window ; what 's to be done ?
I 'll call up that poor lad , , and save him from being murdered in his bed ; or his throat , '' I says , `` may be cut from his right ear to his left , without his ever knowing it . '' '
Here , all eyes were turned upon , who fixed his upon the speaker , and stared at him , with his mouth wide open , and his face expressive of the most unmitigated horror .
' I tossed off the clothes , ' said , throwing away the table-cloth , and looking very hard at the cook and housemaid , 'got softly out of bed ; drew on a pair of -- ' 'Ladies present , , ' murmured the tinker . '
-- Of _shoes_ , sir , ' said , turning upon him , and laying great emphasis on the word ; 'seized the loaded pistol that always goes upstairs with the plate-basket ; and walked on tiptoes to his room .
`` Brittles , '' I says , when I had woke him , `` do n't be frightened ! '' '
'So you did , ' observed , in a low voice .
' '' We 're dead men , I think , , '' I says , ' continued ; ' '' but do n't be frightened . '' '
'Not a bit of it , ' replied .
pretty near as firm as I was . '
' I should have died at once , I 'm sure , if it had been me , ' observed the housemaid .
'You 're a woman , ' retorted , plucking up a little .
'Brittles is right , ' said , nodding his head , approvingly ; 'from a woman , nothing else was to be expected .
We , being men , took a dark lantern that was standing on 's hob , and groped our way downstairs in the pitch dark , -- as it might be so . '
had risen from his seat , and taken two steps with his eyes shut , to accompany his description with appropriate action , when he started violently , in common with the rest of the company , and hurried back to his chair .
The cook and housemaid screamed .
'It was a knock , ' said , assuming perfect serenity .
'It seems a strange sort of a thing , a knock coming at such a time in the morning , ' said , surveying the pale faces which surrounded him , and looking very blank himself ; 'but the door must be opened .
, as he spoke , looked at ; but that young man , being naturally modest , probably considered himself nobody , and so held that the inquiry could not have any application to him ; at all events , he tendered no reply .
directed an appealing glance at the tinker ; but he had suddenly fallen asleep .
The women were out of the question .
'If would rather open the door , in the presence of witnesses , ' said , after a short silence , ' I am ready to make one . '
'So am I , ' said the tinker , waking up , as suddenly as he had fallen asleep .
capitulated on these terms ; and the party being somewhat re-assured by the discovery ( made on throwing open the shutters ) that it was now broad day , took their way upstairs ; with the dogs in front .
The two women , who were afraid to stay below , brought up the rear .
By the advice of , they all talked very loud , to warn any evil-disposed person outside , that they were strong in numbers ; and by a master-stoke of policy , originating in the brain of the same ingenious gentleman , the dogs ' tails were well pinched , in the hall , to make them bark savagely .
These precautions having been taken , held on fast by the tinker 's arm ( to prevent his running away , as he pleasantly said ) , and gave the word of command to open the door .
obeyed ; the group , peeping timorously over each other 's shoulders , beheld no more formidable object than poor little Oliver Twist , speechless and exhausted , who raised his heavy eyes , and mutely solicited their compassion .
exclaimed , valiantly , pushing the tinker into the background .
'What 's the matter with the -- eh ? -- Why -- Brittles -- look here -- do n't you know ? '
, who had got behind the door to open it , no sooner saw , than he uttered a loud cry .
, seizing the boy by one leg and one arm ( fortunately not the broken limb ) lugged him straight into the hall , and deposited him at full length on the floor thereof .
bawled , calling in a state of great excitement , up the staircase ; 'here 's one of the thieves , ma'am !
I shot him , miss ; and held the light . '
' -- In a lantern , miss , ' cried , applying one hand to the side of his mouth , so that his voice might travel the better .
The two women-servants ran upstairs to carry the intelligence that had captured a robber ; and the tinker busied himself in endeavouring to restore , lest he should die before he could be hanged .
In the midst of all this noise and commotion , there was heard a sweet female voice , which quelled it in an instant .
whispered the voice from the stair-head .
' I 'm here , miss , ' replied .
'Do n't be frightened , miss ; I ai n't much injured .
He did n't make a very desperate resistance , miss !
I was soon too many for him . '
replied the young lady ; 'you frighten my aunt as much as the thieves did .
Is the poor creature much hurt ? '
'Wounded desperate , miss , ' replied , with indescribable complacency .
'He looks as if he was a-going , miss , ' bawled , in the same manner as before .
'Would n't you like to come and look at him , miss , in case he should ? '
'Hush , pray ; there 's a good man ! '
'Wait quietly only one instant , while I speak to aunt . '
With a footstep as soft and gentle as the voice , the speaker tripped away .
She soon returned , with the direction that the wounded person was to be carried , carefully , upstairs to 's room ; and that was to saddle the pony and betake himself instantly to : from which place , he was to despatch , with all speed , a constable and doctor .
'But wo n't you take one look at him , first , miss ? '
asked , with as much pride as if were some bird of rare plumage , that he had skilfully brought down .
'Not one little peep , miss ? '
'Not now , for the world , ' replied the young lady .
treat him kindly , for my sake ! '
The old servant looked up at the speaker , as she turned away , with a glance as proud and admiring as if she had been his own child .
Then , bending over , he helped to carry him upstairs , with the care and solicitude of a woman .
In a handsome room : though its furniture had rather the air of old-fashioned comfort , than of modern elegance : there sat two ladies at a well-spread breakfast-table .
, dressed with scrupulous care in a full suit of black , was in attendance upon them .
He had taken his station some half-way between the side-board and the breakfast-table ; and , with his body drawn up to its full height , his head thrown back , and inclined the merest trifle on one side , his left leg advanced , and his right hand thrust into his waist-coat , while his left hung down by his side , grasping a waiter , looked like one who laboured under a very agreeable sense of his own merits and importance .
Of the two ladies , one was well advanced in years ; but the high-backed oaken chair in which she sat , was not more upright than she .
Dressed with the utmost nicety and precision , in a quaint mixture of by-gone costume , with some slight concessions to the prevailing taste , which rather served to point the old style pleasantly than to impair its effect , she sat , in a stately manner , with her hands folded on the table before her .
Her eyes ( and age had dimmed but little of their brightness ) were attentively upon her young companion .
The younger lady was in the lovely bloom and spring-time of womanhood ; at that age , when , if ever angels be for 's good purposes enthroned in mortal forms , they may be , without impiety , supposed to abide in such as hers .
She was not past seventeen .
in so slight and exquisite a mould ; so mild and gentle ; so pure and beautiful ; that earth seemed not her element , nor its rough creatures her fit companions .
The very intelligence that shone in her deep blue eye , and was stamped upon her noble head , seemed scarcely of her age , or of the world ; and yet the changing expression of sweetness and good humour , the thousand lights that played about the face , and left no shadow there ; above all , the smile , the cheerful , happy smile , were made for , and fireside peace and happiness .
She was busily engaged in the little offices of the table .
Chancing to raise her eyes as the elder lady was regarding her , she playfully put back her hair , which was simply braided on her forehead ; and threw into her beaming look , such an expression of affection and artless loveliness , that blessed spirits might have smiled to look upon her .
'And has been gone upwards of an hour , has he ? '
asked the old lady , after a pause .
'An hour and twelve minutes , ma'am , ' replied , referring to a silver watch , which he drew forth by a black ribbon .
'He is always slow , ' remarked the old lady .
'Brittles always was a slow boy , ma'am , ' replied the attendant .
And seeing , by the bye , that had been a slow boy for upwards of thirty years , there appeared no great probability of his ever being a fast one .
'He gets worse instead of better , I think , ' said the elder lady .
'It is very inexcusable in him if he stops to play with any other boys , ' said the young lady , smiling .
was apparently considering the propriety of indulging in a respectful smile himself , when a gig drove up to the garden-gate : out of which there jumped a fat gentleman , who ran straight up to the door : and who , getting quickly into the house by some mysterious process , burst into the room , and nearly overturned and the breakfast-table together .
' I never heard of such a thing ! '
'My dear Mrs. Maylie -- bless my soul -- in the silence of the night , too -- I _never_ heard of such a thing ! '
With these expressions of condolence , the fat gentleman shook hands with both ladies , and drawing up a chair , inquired how they found themselves .
'You ought to be dead ; positively dead with the fright , ' said the fat gentleman .
Bless me , my man should have come in a minute ; and so would I ; and my assistant would have been delighted ; or anybody , I 'm sure , under such circumstances .
In the silence of the night , too ! '
The doctor seemed expecially troubled by the fact of the robbery having been unexpected , and attempted in the night-time ; as if it were the established custom of gentlemen in the housebreaking way to transact business at noon , and to make an appointment , by post , a day or two previous .
'And you , , ' said the doctor , turning to the young lady , ' I -- ' 'Oh !
very much so , indeed , ' said , interrupting him ; 'but there is a poor creature upstairs , whom aunt wishes you to see . '
to be sure , ' replied the doctor , 'so there is .
That was your handiwork , , I understand . '
, who had been feverishly putting the tea-cups to rights , blushed very red , and said that he had had that honour .
said the doctor ; 'well , I do n't know ; perhaps it 's as honourable to hit a thief in a back kitchen , as to hit your man at twelve paces .
that he fired in the air , and you 've fought a duel , . '
, who thought this light treatment of the matter an unjust attempt at diminishing his glory , answered respectfully , that it was not for the like of him to judge about that ; but he rather thought it was no joke to the opposite party .
I 'll look in again , as I come down , Mrs. Maylie .
That 's the little window that he got in at , eh ?
Well , I could n't have believed it ! '
Talking all the way , he followed upstairs ; and while he is going upstairs , the reader may be informed , that , a surgeon in the neighbourhood , known through a circuit of ten miles round as 'the doctor , ' had grown fat , more from good-humour than from good living : and was as kind and hearty , and withal as eccentric an old bachelor , as will be found in five times that space , by any explorer alive .
The doctor was absent , much longer than either he or the ladies had anticipated .
A large flat box was fetched out of the gig ; and a bedroom bell was rung very often ; and the servants ran up and down stairs perpetually ; from which tokens it was justly concluded that something important was going on above .
At length he returned ; and in reply to an anxious inquiry after his patient ; looked very mysterious , and closed the door , carefully .
'This is a very extraordinary thing , Mrs. Maylie , ' said the doctor , standing with his back to the door , as if to keep it shut .
'He is not in danger , I hope ? '
'Why , that would _not_ be an extraordinary thing , under the circumstances , ' replied the doctor ; 'though I do n't think he is .
Have you seen the thief ? '
'No , ' rejoined the old lady .
'Nor heard anything about him ? '
' I beg your pardon , ma'am , interposed ; 'but I was going to tell you about him when came in . '
The fact was , that had not , at first , been able to bring his mind to the avowal , that he had only shot a boy .
Such commendations had been bestowed upon his bravery , that he could not , for the life of him , help postponing the explanation for a few delicious minutes ; during which he had flourished , in the very zenith of a brief reputation for undaunted courage .
'Rose wished to see the man , ' said Mrs. Maylie , 'but I would n't hear of it . '
'There is nothing very alarming in his appearance .
Have you any objection to see him in my presence ? '
'If it be necessary , ' replied the old lady , 'certainly not . '
'Then I think it is necessary , ' said the doctor ; 'at all events , I am quite sure that you would deeply regret not having done so , if you postponed it .
He is perfectly quiet and comfortable now .
Allow me -- , will you permit me ?
Not the slightest fear , I pledge you my honour ! '
With many loquacious assurances that they would be agreeably surprised in the aspect of the criminal , the doctor drew the young lady 's arm through one of his ; and offering his disengaged hand to Mrs. Maylie , led them , with much ceremony and stateliness , upstairs .
'Now , ' said the doctor , in a whisper , as he softly turned the handle of a bedroom-door , 'let us hear what you think of him .
He has not been shaved very recently , but he do n't look at all ferocious notwithstanding .
Let me first see that he is in visiting order . '
Stepping before them , he looked into the room .
Motioning them to advance , he closed the door when they had entered ; and gently drew back the curtains of the bed .
Upon it , in lieu of the dogged , black-visaged ruffian they had expected to behold , there lay a mere child : worn with pain and exhaustion , and sunk into a deep sleep .
His wounded arm , bound and splintered up , was crossed upon his breast ; his head reclined upon the other arm , which was half hidden by his long hair , as it streamed over the pillow .
The honest gentleman held the curtain in his hand , and looked on , for a minute or so , in silence .
Whilst he was watching the patient thus , the younger lady glided softly past , and seating herself in a chair by the bedside , gathered 's hair from his face .
As she stooped over him , her tears fell upon his forehead .
The boy stirred , and smiled in his sleep , as though these marks of pity and compassion had awakened some pleasant dream of a love and affection he had never known .
Thus , a strain of gentle music , or the rippling of water in a silent place , or the odour of a flower , or the mention of a familiar word , will sometimes call up sudden dim remembrances of scenes that never were , in this life ; which vanish like a breath ; which some brief memory of a happier existence , long gone by , would seem to have awakened ; which no voluntary exertion of the mind can ever recall .
'This poor child can never have been the pupil of robbers ! '
'Vice , ' said the surgeon , replacing the curtain , 'takes up her abode in many temples ; and who can say that a fair outside shell not enshrine her ? '
'But at so early an age ! '
'My dear young lady , ' rejoined the surgeon , mournfully shaking his head ; 'crime , like death , is not confined to the old and withered alone .
The youngest and fairest are too often its chosen victims . '
can you really believe that this delicate boy has been the voluntary associate of the worst outcasts of society ? '
The surgeon shook his head , in a manner which intimated that he feared it was very possible ; and observing that they might disturb the patient , led the way into an adjoining apartment .
'But even if he has been wicked , ' pursued , 'think how young he is ; think that he may never have known a mother 's love , or the comfort of a home ; that ill-usage and blows , or the want of bread , may have driven him to herd with men who have forced him to guilt .
, dear aunt , for mercy 's sake , think of this , before you let them drag this sick child to a prison , which in any case must be the grave of all his chances of amendment .
as you love me , and know that I have never felt the want of parents in your goodness and affection , but that I might have done so , and might have been equally helpless and unprotected with this poor child , have pity upon him before it is too late ! '
'My dear love , ' said the elder lady , as she folded the weeping girl to her bosom , 'do you think I would harm a hair of his head ? '
'No , surely , ' said the old lady ; 'my days are drawing to their close : and may mercy be shown to me as I show it to others !
What can I do to save him , sir ? '
'Let me think , ma'am , ' said the doctor ; 'let me think . '
thrust his hands into his pockets , and took several turns up and down the room ; often stopping , and balancing himself on his toes , and frowning frightfully .
After various exclamations of ' I 've got it now ' and 'no , I have n't , ' and as many renewals of the walking and frowning , he at length made a dead halt , and spoke as follows : ' I think if you give me a full and unlimited commission to bully , and that little boy , , I can manage it .
is a faithful fellow and an old servant , I know ; but you can make it up to him in a thousand ways , and reward him for being such a good shot besides .
You do n't object to that ? '
'Unless there is some other way of preserving the child , ' replied Mrs. Maylie .
'There is no other , ' said the doctor .
'No other , take my word for it . '
'Then my aunt invests you with full power , ' said , smiling through her tears ; 'but pray do n't be harder upon the poor fellows than is indispensably necessary . '
'You seem to think , ' retorted the doctor , 'that everybody is disposed to be hard-hearted to-day , except yourself , .
I only hope , for the sake of the rising male sex generally , that you may be found in as vulnerable and soft-hearted a mood by the first eligible young fellow who appeals to your compassion ; and I wish I were a young fellow , that I might avail myself , on the spot , of such a favourable opportunity for doing so , as the present . '
'You are as great a boy as poor Brittles himself , ' returned , blushing .
'Well , ' said the doctor , laughing heartily , 'that is no very difficult matter .
But to return to this boy .
The great point of our agreement is yet to come .
He will wake in an hour or so , I dare say ; and although I have told that thick-headed constable-fellow downstairs that he mus n't be moved or spoken to , on peril of his life , I think we may converse with him without danger .
Now I make this stipulation -- that I shall examine him in your presence , and that , if , from what he says , we judge , and I can show to the satisfaction of your cool reason , that he is a real and thorough bad one ( which is more than possible ) , he shall be left to his fate , without any farther interference on my part , at all events . '
'He can not be hardened in vice , ' said ; 'It is impossible . '
'Very good , ' retorted the doctor ; 'then so much the more reason for acceding to my proposition . '
Finally the treaty was entered into ; and the parties thereunto sat down to wait , with some impatience , until should awake .
The patience of the two ladies was destined to undergo a longer trial than had led them to expect ; for hour after hour passed on , and still slumbered heavily .
It was evening , indeed , before the kind-hearted doctor brought them the intelligence , that he was at length sufficiently restored to be spoken to .
The boy was very ill , he said , and weak from the loss of blood ; but his mind was so troubled with anxiety to disclose something , that he deemed it better to give him the opportunity , than to insist upon his remaining quiet until next morning : which he should otherwise have done .
The conference was a long one .
told them all his simple history , and was often compelled to stop , by pain and want of strength .
It was a solemn thing , to hear , in the darkened room , the feeble voice of the sick child recounting a weary catalogue of evils and calamities which hard men had brought upon him .
if when we oppress and grind our fellow-creatures , we bestowed but one thought on the dark evidences of human error , which , like dense and heavy clouds , are rising , slowly it is true , but not less surely , to , to pour their after-vengeance on our heads ; if we heard but one instant , in imagination , the deep testimony of dead men 's voices , which no power can stifle , and no pride shut out ; where would be the injury and injustice , the suffering , misery , cruelty , and wrong , that each day 's life brings with it !
's pillow was smoothed by gentle hands that night ; and loveliness and virtue watched him as he slept .
He felt calm and happy , and could have died without a murmur .
The momentous interview was no sooner concluded , and composed to rest again , than the doctor , after wiping his eyes , and condemning them for being weak all at once , betook himself downstairs to open upon .
And finding nobody about the parlours , it occurred to him , that he could perhaps originate the proceedings with better effect in the kitchen ; so into the kitchen he went .
There were assembled , in that lower house of the domestic parliament , the women-servants , , , the tinker ( who had received a special invitation to regale himself for the remainder of the day , in consideration of his services ) , and the constable .
The latter gentleman had a large staff , a large head , large features , and large half-boots ; and he looked as if he had been taking a proportionate allowance of ale -- as indeed he had .
The adventures of the previous night were still under discussion ; for was expatiating upon his presence of mind , when the doctor entered ; , with a mug of ale in his hand , was corroborating everything , before his superior said it .
said the doctor , waving his hand .
'Thank you , sir , said .
'Misses wished some ale to be given out , sir ; and as I felt no ways inclined for my own little room , sir , and was disposed for company , I am taking mine among 'em here . '
headed a low murmur , by which the ladies and gentlemen generally were understood to express the gratification they derived from 's condescension .
looked round with a patronising air , as much as to say that so long as they behaved properly , he would never desert them .
'How is the patient to-night , sir ? '
' I am afraid you have got yourself into a scrape there , Mr .
' I hope you do n't mean to say , sir , ' said , trembling , 'that he 's going to die .
If I thought it , I should never be happy again .
I would n't cut a boy off : no , not even here ; not for all the plate in the county , sir . '
'That 's not the point , ' said the doctor , mysteriously .
, are you a ? '
'Yes , sir , I hope so , ' faltered , who had turned very pale .
'And what are _you_ , boy ? '
said the doctor , turning sharply upon .
replied , starting violently ; ' I 'm the same as , sir . '
'Then tell me this , ' said the doctor , 'both of you , both of you !
Are you going to take upon yourselves to swear , that that boy upstairs is the boy that was put through the little window last night ?
We are prepared for you ! '
The doctor , who was universally considered one of the best-tempered creatures on earth , made this demand in such a dreadful tone of anger , that and , who were considerably muddled by ale and excitement , stared at each other in a state of stupefaction .
'Pay attention to the reply , constable , will you ? '
said the doctor , shaking his forefinger with great solemnity of manner , and tapping the bridge of his nose with it , to bespeak the exercise of that worthy 's utmost acuteness .
'Something may come of this before long . '
The constable looked as wise as he could , and took up his staff of office : which had been reclining indolently in the chimney-corner .
'It 's a simple question of identity , you will observe , ' said the doctor .
'That 's what it is , sir , ' replied the constable , coughing with great violence ; for he had finished his ale in a hurry , and some of it had gone the wrong way .
'Here 's the house broken into , ' said the doctor , 'and a couple of men catch one moment 's glimpse of a boy , in the midst of gunpowder smoke , and in all the distraction of alarm and darkness .
Here 's a boy comes to that very same house , next morning , and because he happens to have his arm tied up , these men lay violent hands upon him -- by doing which , they place his life in great danger -- and swear he is the thief .
Now , the question is , whether these men are justified by the fact ; if not , in what situation do they place themselves ? '
He said , if that was n't law , he would be glad to know what was .
' I ask you again , ' thundered the doctor , 'are you , on your solemn oaths , able to identify that boy ? '
looked doubtfully at ; looked doubtfully at ; the constable put his hand behind his ear , to catch the reply ; the two women and the tinker leaned forward to listen ; the doctor glanced keenly round ; when a ring was heard at the gate , and at the same moment , the sound of wheels .
cried , to all appearance much relieved .
exclaimed the doctor , aghast in his turn .
'The officers , sir , ' replied , taking up a candle ; 'me and sent for 'em this morning . '
'Yes , ' replied ; ' I sent a message up by the coachman , and I only wonder they were n't here before , sir . '
Then confound your -- slow coaches down here ; that 's all , ' said the doctor , walking away .
inquired , opening the door a little way , with the chain up , and peeping out , shading the candle with his hand .
'Open the door , ' replied a man outside ; 'it 's the officers from , as was sent to to-day . '
Much comforted by this assurance , opened the door to its full width , and confronted a portly man in a great-coat ; who walked in , without saying anything more , and wiped his shoes on the mat , as coolly as if he lived there .
'Just send somebody out to relieve my mate , will you , young man ? '
said the officer ; 'he 's in the gig , a-minding the prad .
Have you got a coach 'us here , that you could put it up in , for five or ten minutes ? '
Brittles replying in the affirmative , and pointing out the building , the portly man stepped back to the garden-gate , and helped his companion to put up the gig : while lighted them , in a state of great admiration .
This done , they returned to the house , and , being shown into a parlour , took off their great-coats and hats , and showed like what they were .
The man who had knocked at the door , was a stout personage of middle height , aged about fifty : with shiny black hair , cropped pretty close ; half-whiskers , a round face , and sharp eyes .
The other was a red-headed , bony man , in top-boots ; with a rather ill-favoured countenance , and a turned-up sinister-looking nose .
'Tell your governor that and is here , will you ? '
said the stouter man , smoothing down his hair , and laying a pair of handcuffs on the table .
Can I have a word or two with you in private , if you please ? '
This was addressed to , who now made his appearance ; that gentleman , motioning to retire , brought in the two ladies , and shut the door .
'This is the lady of the house , ' said , motioning towards Mrs. Maylie .
made a bow .
Being desired to sit down , he put his hat on the floor , and taking a chair , motioned to to do the same .
The latter gentleman , who did not appear quite so much accustomed to good society , or quite so much at his ease in it -- one of the two -- seated himself , after undergoing several muscular affections of the limbs , and the head of his stick into his mouth , with some embarrassment .
'Now , with regard to this here robbery , master , ' said .
, who appeared desirous of gaining time , recounted them at great length , and with much circumlocution .
Messrs. Blathers and looked very knowing meanwhile , and occasionally exchanged a nod .
' I ca n't say , for certain , till I see the work , of course , ' said ; 'but my opinion at once is , -- I do n't mind committing myself to that extent , -- that this was n't done by a yokel ; eh , ? '
'And , translating the word yokel for the benefit of the ladies , I apprehend your meaning to be , that this attempt was not made by a countryman ? '
said , with a smile .
'That 's it , master , ' replied .
'This is all about the robbery , is it ? '
'Now , what is this , about this here boy that the servants are a-talking on ? '
'Nothing at all , ' replied the doctor .
'One of the frightened servants chose to take it into his head , that he had something to do with this attempt to break into the house ; but it 's nonsense : sheer absurdity . '
'Wery easy disposed of , if it is , ' remarked .
'What he says is quite correct , ' observed , nodding his head in a confirmatory way , and playing carelessly with the handcuffs , as if they were a pair of castanets .
What account does he give of himself ?
Where did he come from ?
He did n't drop out of the clouds , did he , master ? '
'Of course not , ' replied the doctor , with a nervous glance at the two ladies .
' I know his whole history : but we can talk about that presently .
You would like , first , to see the place where the thieves made their attempt , I suppose ? '
'We had better inspect the premises first , and examine the servants afterwards .
That 's the usual way of doing business . '
Lights were then procured ; and Messrs. and , attended by the native constable , , , and everybody else in short , went into the little room at the end of the passage and looked out at the window ; and afterwards went round by way of the lawn , and looked in at the window ; and after that , had a candle handed out to inspect the shutter with ; and after that , a lantern to trace the footsteps with ; and after that , a pitchfork to poke the bushes with .
This done , amidst the breathless interest of all beholders , they came in again ; and and were put through a melodramatic representation of their share in the previous night 's adventures : which they performed some six times over : contradicting each other , in not more than one important respect , the first time , and in not more than a dozen the last .
This consummation being arrived at , and cleared the room , and held a long council together , compared with which , for secrecy and solemnity , a consultation of great doctors on the knottiest point in medicine , would be mere child 's play .
Meanwhile , the doctor walked up and down the next room in a very uneasy state ; and Mrs. Maylie and looked on , with anxious faces .
'Upon my word , ' he said , making a halt , after a great number of very rapid turns , ' I hardly know what to do . '
'Surely , ' said , 'the poor child 's story , faithfully repeated to these men , will be sufficient to exonerate him . '
' I doubt it , my dear young lady , ' said the doctor , shaking his head .
' I do n't think it would exonerate him , either with them , or with legal functionaries of a higher grade .
What is he , after all , they would say ?
Judged by mere worldly considerations and probabilities , his story is a very doubtful one . '
'_I_ believe it , strange as it is ; and perhaps I may be an old fool for doing so , ' rejoined the doctor ; 'but I do n't think it is exactly the tale for a practical police-officer , nevertheless . '
'Because , my pretty cross-examiner , ' replied the doctor : 'because , viewed with their eyes , there are many ugly points about it ; he can only prove the parts that look ill , and none of those that look well .
Confound the fellows , they _will_ have the why and the wherefore , and will take nothing for granted .
On his own showing , you see , he has been the companion of thieves for some time past ; he has been carried to a police-officer , on a charge of picking a gentleman 's pocket ; he has been taken away , forcibly , from that gentleman 's house , to a place which he can not describe or point out , and of the situation of which he has not the remotest idea .
He is brought down to , by men who seem to have taken a violent fancy to him , whether he will or no ; and is put through a window to rob a house ; and then , just at the very moment when he is going to alarm the inmates , and so do the very thing that would set him all to rights , there rushes into the way , a blundering dog of a half-bred butler , and shoots him !
As if on purpose to prevent his doing any good for himself !
Do n't you see all this ? '
' I see it , of course , ' replied , smiling at the doctor 's impetuosity ; 'but still I do not see anything in it , to criminate the poor child . '
'No , ' replied the doctor ; 'of course not !
Bless the bright eyes of your sex !
They never see , whether for good or bad , more than one side of any question ; and that is , always , the one which first presents itself to them . '
Having given vent to this result of experience , the doctor put his hands into his pockets , and walked up and down the room with even greater rapidity than before .
'The more I think of it , ' said the doctor , 'the more I see that it will occasion endless trouble and difficulty if we put these men in possession of the boy 's real story .
I am certain it will not be believed ; and even if they can do nothing to him in the end , still the dragging it forward , and giving publicity to all the doubts that will be cast upon it , must interfere , materially , with your benevolent plan of rescuing him from misery . '
what is to be done ? '
why did they send for these people ? '
' I would not have had them here , for the world . '
'All I know is , ' said , at last : sitting down with a kind of desperate calmness , 'that we must try and carry it off with a bold face .
The object is a good one , and that must be our excuse .
The boy has strong symptoms of fever upon him , and is in no condition to be talked to any more ; that 's one comfort .
We must make the best of it ; and if bad be the best , it is no fault of ours .
'Well , master , ' said , entering the room followed by his colleague , and making the door fast , before he said any more .
'This war n't a put-up thing . '
'And what the devil 's a put-up thing ? '
'We call it a put-up robbery , ladies , ' said , turning to them , as if he pitied their ignorance , but had a contempt for the doctor 's , 'when the servants is in it . '
'Nobody suspected them , in this case , ' said Mrs. Maylie .
'Wery likely not , ma'am , ' replied ; 'but they might have been in it , for all that . '
'More likely on that wery account , ' said .
'We find it was a town hand , ' said , continuing his report ; 'for the style of work is first-rate . '
'Wery pretty indeed it is , ' remarked , in an undertone .
'There was two of 'em in it , ' continued ; 'and they had a boy with 'em ; that 's plain from the size of the window .
That 's all to be said at present .
We 'll see this lad that you 've got upstairs at once , if you please . '
'Perhaps they will take something to drink first , Mrs .
said the doctor : his face brightening , as if some new thought had occurred to him .
'You shall have it immediately , if you will . '
said , drawing his coat-sleeve across his mouth ; 'it 's dry work , this sort of duty .
Anythink that 's handy , miss ; do n't put yourself out of the way , on our accounts . '
asked the doctor , following the young lady to the sideboard .
' A little drop of spirits , master , if it 's all the same , ' replied .
'It 's a cold ride from , ma'am ; and I always find that spirits comes home warmer to the feelings . '
This interesting communication was addressed to Mrs. Maylie , who received it very graciously .
While it was being conveyed to her , the doctor slipped out of the room .
said : not holding his wine-glass by the stem , but grasping the bottom between the thumb and forefinger of his left hand : and placing it in front of his chest ; ' I have seen a good many pieces of business like this , in my time , ladies . '
'That crack down in the back lane at , , ' said , assisting his colleague 's memory .
'That was something in this way , war n't it ? '
rejoined ; 'that was done by , that was . '
'You always gave that to him ' replied .
'It was the , I tell you .
had n't any more to do with it than I had . '
retorted ; ' I know better .
Do you mind that time when was robbed of his money , though ?
What a start that was !
Better than any novel-book _I_ ever see ! '
inquired : anxious to encourage any symptoms of good-humour in the unwelcome visitors .
'It was a robbery , miss , that hardly anybody would have been down upon , ' said .
'This here Chickweed -- ' 'Conkey means , ma'am , ' interposed Duff .
'Of course the lady knows that , do n't she ? '
'Always interrupting , you are , partner !
This here , miss , kept a public-house over way , and he had a cellar , where a good many young lords went to see cock-fighting , and badger-drawing , and that ; and a wery intellectual manner the sports was conducted in , for I 've seen 'em off'en .
He war n't one of the family , at that time ; and one night he was robbed of three hundred and twenty-seven guineas in a canvas bag , that was stole out of his bedroom in the dead of night , by a tall man with a black patch over his eye , who had concealed himself under the bed , and after committing the robbery , jumped slap out of window : which was only a story high .
He was wery quick about it .
But was quick , too ; for he fired a blunderbuss arter him , and roused the neighbourhood .
They set up a hue-and-cry , directly , and when they came to look about 'em , found that had hit the robber ; for there was traces of blood , all the way to some palings a good distance off ; and there they lost 'em .
However , he had made off with the blunt ; and , consequently , the name of , licensed witler , appeared in the among the other bankrupts ; and all manner of benefits and subscriptions , and I do n't know what all , was got up for the poor man , who was in a wery low state of mind about his loss , and went up and down the streets , for three or four days , a pulling his hair off in such a desperate manner that many people was afraid he might be going to make away with himself .
One day he came up to the office , all in a hurry , and had a private interview with the magistrate , who , after a deal of talk , rings the bell , and orders in ( was a active officer ) , and tells him to go and assist in apprehending the man as robbed his house .
`` I see him , , '' said , `` pass my house yesterday morning , '' `` Why did n't you up , and collar him ! ''
`` I was so struck all of a heap , that you might have fractured my skull with a toothpick , '' says the poor man ; `` but we 're sure to have him ; for between ten and eleven o'clock at night he passed again . ''
Spyers no sooner heard this , than he put some clean linen and a comb , in his pocket , in case he should have to stop a day or two ; and away he goes , and sets himself down at one of the public-house windows behind the little red curtain , with his hat on , all ready to bolt out , at a moment 's notice .
He was smoking his pipe here , late at night , when all of a sudden Chickweed roars out , `` Here he is !
dashes out ; and there he sees , a-tearing down the street full cry .
Away goes ; on goes ; round turns the people ; everybody roars out , `` Thieves ! ''
and Chickweed himself keeps on shouting , all the time , like mad .
Spyers loses sight of him a minute as he turns a corner ; shoots round ; sees a little crowd ; dives in ; `` Which is the man ? ''
says , `` I 've lost him again ! ''
It was a remarkable occurrence , but he war n't to be seen nowhere , so they went back to the public-house .
Next morning , took his old place , and looked out , from behind the curtain , for a tall man with a black patch over his eye , till his own two eyes ached again .
At last , he could n't help shutting 'em , to ease 'em a minute ; and the very moment he did so , he hears Chickweed a-roaring out , `` Here he is ! ''
Off he starts once more , with half-way down the street ahead of him ; and after twice as long a run as the yesterday 's one , the man 's lost again !
This was done , once or twice more , till one-half the neighbours gave out that had been robbed by the devil , who was playing tricks with him arterwards ; and the other half , that poor had gone mad with grief . '
'What did say ? '
inquired the doctor ; who had returned to the room shortly after the commencement of the story .
'Jem Spyers , ' resumed the officer , 'for a long time said nothing at all , and listened to everything without seeming to , which showed he understood his business .
But , one morning , he walked into the bar , and taking out his snuffbox , says `` , I 've found out who done this here robbery . ''
`` Oh , my dear Spyers , only let me have wengeance , and I shall die contented !
Oh , my dear Spyers , where is the villain ! ''
said , offering him a pinch of snuff , `` none of that gammon !
So he had ; and a good bit of money he had made by it , too ; and nobody would never have found it out , if he had n't been so precious anxious to keep up appearances ! '
said , putting down his wine-glass , and clinking the handcuffs together .
'Very curious , indeed , ' observed the doctor .
'Now , if you please , you can walk upstairs . '
'If _you_ please , sir , ' returned .
Closely following , the two officers ascended to 's bedroom ; preceding the party , with a lighted candle .
had been dozing ; but looked worse , and was more feverish than he had appeared yet .
Being assisted by the doctor , he managed to sit up in bed for a minute or so ; and looked at the strangers without at all understanding what was going forward -- in fact , without seeming to recollect where he was , or what had been passing .
'This , ' said , speaking softly , but with great vehemence notwithstanding , 'this is the lad , who , being accidently wounded by a spring-gun in some boyish trespass on What-d ' ye-call-him 's grounds , at the back here , comes to the house for assistance this morning , and is immediately laid hold of and maltreated , by that ingenious gentleman with the candle in his hand : who has placed his life in considerable danger , as I can professionally certify . '
Messrs. Blathers and looked at , as he was thus recommended to their notice .
The bewildered butler gazed from them towards , and from towards , with a most ludicrous mixture of fear and perplexity .
'You do n't mean to deny that , I suppose ? '
said the doctor , laying gently down again .
'It was all done for the -- for the best , sir , ' answered .
' I am sure I thought it was the boy , or I would n't have meddled with him .
I am not of an inhuman disposition , sir . '
'Thought it was what boy ? '
'They -- they certainly had a boy . '
Do you think so now ? '
replied , looking vacantly at his questioner .
'Think it 's the same boy , Stupid-head ? '
' I do n't know ; I really do n't know , ' said , with a rueful countenance .
' I could n't swear to him . '
' I do n't know what to think , ' replied poor Giles .
' I do n't think it is the boy ; indeed , I 'm almost certain that it is n't .
You know it ca n't be . '
'Has this man been a-drinking , sir ? '
inquired , turning to the doctor .
'What a precious muddle-headed chap you are ! '
said , addressing , with supreme contempt .
had been feeling the patient 's pulse during this short dialogue ; but he now rose from the chair by the bedside , and remarked , that if the officers had any doubts upon the subject , they would perhaps like to step into the next room , and have Brittles before them .
Acting upon this suggestion , they adjourned to a neighbouring apartment , where , being called in , involved himself and his respected superior in such a wonderful maze of fresh contradictions and impossibilities , as tended to throw no particular light on anything , but the fact of his own strong mystification ; except , indeed , his declarations that he should n't know the real boy , if he were put before him that instant ; that he had only taken to be he , because had said he was ; and that had , five minutes previously , admitted in the kitchen , that he began to be very much afraid he had been a little too hasty .
Among other ingenious surmises , the question was then raised , whether had really hit anybody ; and upon examination of the fellow pistol to that which he had fired , it turned out to have no more destructive loading than gunpowder and brown paper : a discovery which made a considerable impression on everybody but the doctor , who had drawn the ball about ten minutes before .
Upon no one , however , did it make a greater impression than on himself ; who , after labouring , for some hours , under the fear of having mortally wounded a fellow-creature , eagerly caught at this new idea , and favoured it to the utmost .
Finally , the officers , without troubling themselves very much about , left the constable in the house , and took up their rest for that night in the town ; promising to return the next morning .
With the next morning , there came a rumour , that two men and a boy were in the cage at , who had been apprehended over night under suspicious circumstances ; and to Messrs. Blathers and journeyed accordingly .
The suspicious circumstances , however , resolving themselves , on investigation , into the one fact , that they had been discovered sleeping under a haystack ; which , although a great crime , is only punishable by imprisonment , and is , in the merciful eye of the law , and its comprehensive love of all the King 's subjects , held to be no satisfactory proof , in the absence of all other evidence , that the sleeper , or sleepers , have committed burglary accompanied with violence , and have therefore rendered themselves liable to the punishment of death ; Messrs. and came back again , as wise as they went .
In short , after some more examination , and a great deal more conversation , a neighbouring magistrate was readily induced to take the joint bail of Mrs. Maylie and for 's appearance if he should ever be called upon ; and and , being rewarded with a couple of guineas , returned to town with divided opinions on the subject of their expedition : the latter gentleman on a mature consideration of all the circumstances , inclining to the belief that the burglarious attempt had originated with the ; and the former being equally disposed to concede the full merit of it to the great .
Meanwhile , gradually throve and prospered under the united care of Mrs. Maylie , , and the kind-hearted .
If fervent prayers , gushing from hearts overcharged with gratitude , be heard in heaven -- and if they be not , what prayers are ! -- the blessings which the orphan child called down upon them , sunk into their souls , diffusing peace and happiness .
's ailings were neither slight nor few .
In addition to the pain and delay attendant on a broken limb , his exposure to the wet and cold had brought on fever and ague : which hung about him for many weeks , and reduced him sadly .
But , at length , he began , by slow degrees , to get better , and to be able to say sometimes , in a few tearful words , how deeply he felt the goodness of the two sweet ladies , and how ardently he hoped that when he grew strong and well again , he could do something to show his gratitude ; only something , which would let them see the love and duty with which his breast was full ; something , however slight , which would prove to them that their gentle kindness had not been cast away ; but that the poor boy whom their charity had rescued from misery , or death , was eager to serve them with his whole heart and soul .
said , when had been one day feebly endeavouring to utter the words of thankfulness that rose to his pale lips ; 'you shall have many opportunities of serving us , if you will .
We are going into the country , and my aunt intends that you shall accompany us .
The quiet place , the pure air , and all the pleasure and beauties of spring , will restore you in a few days .
We will employ you in a hundred ways , when you can bear the trouble . '
dear lady , if I could but work for you ; if I could only give you pleasure by watering your flowers , or watching your birds , or running up and down the whole day long , to make you happy ; what would I give to do it ! '
'You shall give nothing at all , ' said , smiling ; 'for , as I told you before , we shall employ you in a hundred ways ; and if you only take half the trouble to please us , that you promise now , you will make me very happy indeed . '
cried ; 'how kind of you to say so ! '
'You will make me happier than I can tell you , ' replied the young lady .
'To think that my dear good aunt should have been the means of rescuing any one from such sad misery as you have described to us , would be an unspeakable pleasure to me ; but to know that the object of her goodness and compassion was sincerely grateful and attached , in consequence , would delight me , more than you can well imagine .
she inquired , watching 's thoughtful face .
replied eagerly ; 'but I was thinking that I am ungrateful now . '
'To the kind gentleman , and the dear old nurse , who took so much care of me before , ' rejoined .
'If they knew how happy I am , they would be pleased , I am sure . '
' I am sure they would , ' rejoined 's benefactress ; 'and has already been kind enough to promise that when you are well enough to bear the journey , he will carry you to see them . '
cried , his face brightening with pleasure .
' I do n't know what I shall do for joy when I see their kind faces once again ! '
In a short time was sufficiently recovered to undergo the fatigue of this expedition .
One morning he and set out , accordingly , in a little carriage which belonged to Mrs. Maylie .
When they came to , turned very pale , and uttered a loud exclamation .
'What 's the matter with the boy ? '
cried the doctor , as usual , all in a bustle .
'Do you see anything -- hear anything -- feel anything -- eh ? '
'That , sir , ' cried , pointing out of the carriage window .
'Yes ; well , what of it ?
Pull up here , ' cried the doctor .
'What of the house , my man ; eh ? '
'The thieves -- the house they took me to ! '
But , before the coachman could dismount from his box , he had tumbled out of the coach , by some means or other ; and , running down to the deserted tenement , began kicking at the door like a madman .
said a little ugly hump-backed man : opening the door so suddenly , that the doctor , from the very impetus of his last kick , nearly fell forward into the passage .
exclaimed the other , collaring him , without a moment 's reflection .
'There 'll be Murder the matter , too , ' replied the hump-backed man , coolly , 'if you do n't take your hands off .
' I hear you , ' said the doctor , giving his captive a hearty shake .
'Where 's -- confound the fellow , what 's his rascally name -- ; that 's it .
The hump-backed man stared , as if in excess of amazement and indignation ; then , twisting himself , dexterously , from the doctor 's grasp , growled forth a volley of horrid oaths , and retired into the house .
Before he could shut the door , however , the doctor had passed into the parlour , without a word of parley .
He looked anxiously round ; not an article of furniture ; not a vestige of anything , animate or inanimate ; not even the position of the cupboards ; answered 's description !
said the hump-backed man , who had watched him keenly , 'what do you mean by coming into my house , in this violent way ?
Do you want to rob me , or to murder me ?
'Did you ever know a man come out to do either , in a chariot and pair , you ridiculous old vampire ? '
'What do you want , then ? '
'Will you take yourself off , before I do you a mischief ?
'As soon as I think proper , ' said , looking into the other parlour ; which , like the first , bore no resemblance whatever to 's account of it .
' I shall find you out , some day , my friend . '
'If you ever want me , I 'm here .
I have n't lived here mad and all alone , for five-and-twenty years , to be scared by you .
You shall pay for this ; you shall pay for this . '
And so saying , the mis-shapen little demon set up a yell , and danced upon the ground , as if wild with rage .
'Stupid enough , this , ' muttered the doctor to himself ; 'the boy must have made a mistake .
Put that in your pocket , and shut yourself up again . '
With these words he flung the hunchback a piece of money , and returned to the carriage .
The man followed to the chariot door , uttering the wildest imprecations and curses all the way ; but as turned to speak to the driver , he looked into the carriage , and eyed for an instant with a glance so sharp and fierce and at the same time so furious and vindictive , that , waking or sleeping , he could not forget it for months afterwards .
He continued to utter the most fearful imprecations , until the driver had resumed his seat ; and when they were once more on their way , they could see him some distance behind : beating his feet upon the ground , and tearing his hair , in transports of real or pretended rage .
said the doctor , after a long silence .
'Did you know that before , ? '
'Then do n't forget it another time . '
'An ass , ' said the doctor again , after a further silence of some minutes .
'Even if it had been the right place , and the right fellows had been there , what could I have done , single-handed ?
And if I had had assistance , I see no good that I should have done , except leading to my own exposure , and an unavoidable statement of the manner in which I have hushed up this business .
That would have served me right , though .
I am always involving myself in some scrape or other , by acting on impulse .
It might have done me good . '
Now , the fact was that the excellent doctor had never acted upon anything but impulse all through his life , and it was no bad compliment to the nature of the impulses which governed him , that so far from being involved in any peculiar troubles or misfortunes , he had the warmest respect and esteem of all who knew him .
If the truth must be told , he was a little out of temper , for a minute or two , at being disappointed in procuring corroborative evidence of 's story on the very first occasion on which he had a chance of obtaining any .
He soon came round again , however ; and finding that 's replies to his questions , were still as straightforward and consistent , and still delivered with as much apparent sincerity and truth , as they had ever been , he made up his mind to attach full credence to them , from that time forth .
As knew the name of the street in which resided , they were enabled to drive straight thither .
When the coach turned into it , his heart beat so violently , that he could scarcely draw his breath .
'Now , my boy , which house is it ? '
replied , pointing eagerly out of the window .
I feel as if I should die : it makes me tremble so . '
said the good doctor , patting him on the shoulder .
'You will see them directly , and they will be overjoyed to find you safe and well . '
'They were so good to me ; so very , very good to me . '
No ; that was the wrong house ; the next door .
It went on a few paces , and stopped again .
Oliver looked up at the windows , with tears of happy expectation coursing down his face .
the white house was empty , and there was a bill in the window .
'Knock at the next door , ' cried , taking 's arm in his .
'What has become of , who used to live in the adjoining house , do you know ? '
The servant did not know ; but would go and inquire .
She presently returned , and said , that had sold off his goods , and gone to the , six weeks before .
clasped his hands , and sank feebly backward .
'Has his housekeeper gone too ? '
inquired , after a moment 's pause .
'Yes , sir ' ; replied the servant .
'The old gentleman , the housekeeper , and a gentleman who was a friend of 's , all went together . '
'Then turn towards home again , ' said to the driver ; 'and do n't stop to bait the horses , till you get out of this confounded ! '
' I know the way there .
'My poor boy , this is disappointment enough for one day , ' said the doctor .
'Quite enough for both of us .
If we go to the book-stall keeper 's , we shall certainly find that he is dead , or has set his house on fire , or run away .
And in obedience to the doctor 's impulse , home they went .
This bitter disappointment caused Oliver much sorrow and grief , even in the midst of his happiness ; for he had pleased himself , many times during his illness , with thinking of all that and Mrs. Bedwin would say to him : and what delight it would be to tell them how many long days and nights he had passed in reflecting on what they had done for him , and in bewailing his cruel separation from them .
The hope of eventually clearing himself with them , too , and explaining how he had been forced away , had buoyed him up , and sustained him , under many of his recent trials ; and now , the idea that they should have gone so far , and carried with them the belief that he was an impostor and a robber -- a belief which might remain uncontradicted to his dying day -- was almost more than he could bear .
The circumstance occasioned no alteration , however , in the behaviour of his benefactors .
After another fortnight , when the fine warm weather had fairly begun , and every tree and flower was putting forth its young leaves and rich blossoms , they made preparations for quitting the house at , for some months .
Sending the plate , which had so excited 's cupidity , to the banker 's ; and leaving and another servant in care of the house , they departed to a cottage at some distance in the country , and took with them .
Who can describe the pleasure and delight , the peace of mind and soft tranquillity , the sickly boy felt in the balmy air , and among the green hills and rich woods , of an inland village !
Who can tell how scenes of peace and quietude sink into the minds of pain-worn dwellers in close and noisy places , and carry their own freshness , deep into their jaded hearts !
Men who have lived in crowded , pent-up streets , through lives of toil , and who have never wished for change ; men , to whom custom has indeed been second nature , and who have come almost to love each brick and stone that formed the narrow boundaries of their daily walks ; even they , with the hand of death upon them , have been known to yearn at last for one short glimpse of 's face ; and , carried far from the scenes of their old pains and pleasures , have seemed to pass at once into a new state of being .
Crawling forth , from day to day , to some green sunny spot , they have had such memories wakened up within them by the sight of the sky , and hill and plain , and glistening water , that a foretaste of heaven itself has soothed their quick decline , and they have sunk into their tombs , as peacefully as the sun whose setting they watched from their lonely chamber window but a few hours before , faded from their dim and feeble sight !
The memories which peaceful country scenes call up , are not of this world , nor of its thoughts and hopes .
Their gentle influence may teach us how to weave fresh garlands for the graves of those we loved : may purify our thoughts , and bear down before it old enmity and hatred ; but beneath all this , there lingers , in the least reflective mind , a vague and half-formed consciousness of having held such feelings long before , in some remote and distant time , which calls up solemn thoughts of distant times to come , and bends down pride and worldliness beneath it .
It was a lovely spot to which they repaired .
, whose days had been spent among squalid crowds , and in the midst of noise and brawling , seemed to enter on a new existence there .
The rose and honeysuckle clung to the cottage walls ; the ivy crept round the trunks of the trees ; and the garden-flowers perfumed the air with delicious odours .
by , was a little churchyard ; not crowded with tall unsightly gravestones , but full of humble mounds , covered with fresh turf and moss : beneath which , the old people of the village lay at rest .
Oliver often wandered here ; and , thinking of the wretched grave in which his mother lay , would sometimes sit him down and sob unseen ; but , when he raised his eyes to the deep sky overhead , he would cease to think of her as lying in the ground , and would weep for her , sadly , but without pain .
It was a happy time .
The days were peaceful and serene ; the nights brought with them neither fear nor care ; no languishing in a wretched prison , or associating with wretched men ; nothing but pleasant and happy thoughts .
Every morning he went to a white-headed old gentleman , who lived near the little church : who taught him to read better , and to write : and who spoke so kindly , and took such pains , that could never try enough to please him .
Then , he would walk with Mrs. Maylie and , and hear them talk of books ; or perhaps sit near them , in some shady place , and listen whilst the young lady read : which he could have done , until it grew too dark to see the letters .
Then , he had his own lesson for the next day to prepare ; and at this , he would work hard , in a little room which looked into the garden , till evening came slowly on , when the ladies would walk out again , and he with them : listening with such pleasure to all they said : and so happy if they wanted a flower that he could climb to reach , or had forgotten anything he could run to fetch : that he could never be quick enough about it .
When it became quite dark , and they returned home , the young lady would sit down to the piano , and play some pleasant air , or sing , in a low and gentle voice , some old song which it pleased her aunt to hear .
There would be no candles lighted at such times as these ; and would sit by one of the windows , listening to the sweet music , in a perfect rapture .
And when Sunday came , how differently the day was spent , from any way in which he had ever spent it yet !
and how happily too ; like all the other days in that most happy time !
There was the little church , in the morning , with the green leaves fluttering at the windows : the birds singing without : and the sweet-smelling air stealing in at the low porch , and filling the homely building with its fragrance .
The poor people were so neat and clean , and knelt so reverently in prayer , that it seemed a pleasure , not a tedious duty , their assembling there together ; and though the singing might be rude , it was real , and sounded more musical ( to 's ears at least ) than any he had ever heard in church before .
Then , there were the walks as usual , and many calls at the clean houses of the labouring men ; and at night , read a chapter or two from the , which he had been studying all the week , and in the performance of which duty he felt more proud and pleased , than if he had been the clergyman himself .
In the morning , would be a-foot by six o'clock , roaming the fields , and plundering the hedges , far and wide , for nosegays of wild flowers , with which he would return laden , home ; and which it took great care and consideration to arrange , to the best advantage , for the embellishment of the breakfast-table .
There was fresh groundsel , too , for 's birds , with which , who had been studying the subject under the able tuition of the village clerk , would decorate the cages , in the most approved taste .
When the birds were made all spruce and smart for the day , there was usually some little commission of charity to execute in the village ; or , failing that , there was rare cricket-playing , sometimes , on the green ; or , failing that , there was always something to do in the garden , or about the plants , to which ( who had studied this science also , under the same master , who was a gardener by trade , ) applied himself with hearty good-will , until made her appearance : when there were a thousand commendations to be bestowed on all he had done .
So three months glided away ; three months which , in the life of the most blessed and favoured of mortals , might have been unmingled happiness , and which , in 's were true felicity .
With the purest and most amiable generosity on one side ; and the truest , warmest , soul-felt gratitude on the other ; it is no wonder that , by the end of that short time , had become completely domesticated with the old lady and her niece , and that the fervent attachment of his young and sensitive heart , was repaid by their pride in , and attachment to , himself .
flew swiftly by , and summer came .
If the village had been beautiful at first it was now in the full glow and luxuriance of its richness .
The great trees , which had looked shrunken and bare in the earlier months , had now burst into strong life and health ; and stretching forth their green arms over the thirsty ground , converted open and naked spots into choice nooks , where was a deep and pleasant shade from which to look upon the wide prospect , steeped in sunshine , which lay stretched beyond .
The earth had donned her mantle of brightest green ; and shed her richest perfumes abroad .
It was the prime and vigour of the year ; all things were glad and flourishing .
Still , the same quiet life went on at the little cottage , and the same cheerful serenity prevailed among its inmates .
had long since grown stout and healthy ; but health or sickness made no difference in his warm feelings of a great many people .
He was still the same gentle , attached , affectionate creature that he had been when pain and suffering had wasted his strength , and when he was dependent for every slight attention , and comfort on those who tended him .
One beautiful night , when they had taken a longer walk than was customary with them : for the day had been unusually warm , and there was a brilliant moon , and a light wind had sprung up , which was unusually refreshing .
had been in high spirits , too , and they had walked on , in merry conversation , until they had far exceeded their ordinary bounds .
Mrs. Maylie being fatigued , they returned more slowly home .
The young lady merely throwing off her simple bonnet , sat down to the piano as usual .
After running abstractedly over the keys for a few minutes , she fell into a low and very solemn air ; and as she played it , they heard a sound as if she were weeping .
made no reply , but played a little quicker , as though the words had roused her from some painful thoughts .
cried Mrs. Maylie , rising hastily , and bending over her .
My dear child , what distresses you ? '
'Nothing , aunt ; nothing , ' replied the young lady .
' I do n't know what it is ; I ca n't describe it ; but I feel -- ' 'Not ill , my love ? '
replied : shuddering as though some deadly chillness were passing over her , while she spoke ; ' I shall be better presently .
Oliver hastened to comply with her request .
The young lady , making an effort to recover her cheerfulness , strove to play some livelier tune ; but her fingers dropped powerless over the keys .
Covering her face with her hands , she sank upon a sofa , and gave vent to the tears which she was now unable to repress .
said the elderly lady , folding her arms about her , ' I never saw you so before . '
' I would not alarm you if I could avoid it , ' rejoined ; 'but indeed I have tried very hard , and can not help this .
I fear I _am_ ill , aunt . '
She was , indeed ; for , when candles were brought , they saw that in the very short time which had elapsed since their return home , the hue of her countenance had changed to a marble whiteness .
Its expression had lost nothing of its beauty ; but it was changed ; and there was an anxious haggard look about the gentle face , which it had never worn before .
Another minute , and it was suffused with a crimson flush : and a heavy wildness came over the soft blue eye .
Again this disappeared , like the shadow thrown by a passing cloud ; and she was once more deadly pale .
, who watched the old lady anxiously , observed that she was alarmed by these appearances ; and so in truth , was he ; but seeing that she affected to make light of them , he endeavoured to do the same , and they so far succeeded , that when was persuaded by her aunt to retire for the night , she was in better spirits ; and appeared even in better health : assuring them that she felt certain she should rise in the morning , quite well .
' I hope , ' said , when Mrs. Maylie returned , 'that nothing is the matter ?
She do n't look well to-night , but -- ' The old lady motioned to him not to speak ; and sitting herself down in a dark corner of the room , remained silent for some time .
At length , she said , in a trembling voice : ' I hope not , .
I have been very happy with her for some years : too happy , perhaps .
It may be time that I should meet with some misfortune ; but I hope it is not this . '
'The heavy blow , ' said the old lady , 'of losing the dear girl who has so long been my comfort and happiness . '
'Amen to that , my child ! '
said the old lady , wringing her hands .
'Surely there is no danger of anything so dreadful ? '
'Two hours ago , she was quite well . '
'She is very ill now , ' rejoined Mrs. Maylies ; 'and will be worse , I am sure .
Oh , what shall I do without her ! '
She gave way to such great grief , that , suppressing his own emotion , ventured to remonstrate with her ; and to beg , earnestly , that , for the sake of the dear young lady herself , she would be more calm .
'And consider , ma'am , ' said , as the tears forced themselves into his eyes , despite of his efforts to the contrary .
consider how young and good she is , and what pleasure and comfort she gives to all about her .
I am sure -- certain -- quite certain -- that , for your sake , who are so good yourself ; and for her own ; and for the sake of all she makes so happy ; she will not die .
will never let her die so young . '
said Mrs. Maylie , laying her hand on 's head .
'You think like a child , poor boy .
But you teach me my duty , notwithstanding .
I had forgotten it for a moment , , but I hope I may be pardoned , for I am old , and have seen enough of illness and death to know the agony of separation from the objects of our love .
I have seen enough , too , to know that it is not always the youngest and best who are spared to those that love them ; but this should give us comfort in our sorrow ; for is just ; and such things teach us , impressively , that there is a brighter world than this ; and that the passage to it is speedy .
I love her ; and He knows how well ! '
was surprised to see that as Mrs. said these words , she checked her lamentations as though by one effort ; and drawing herself up as she spoke , became composed and firm .
He was still more astonished to find that this firmness lasted ; and that , under all the care and watching which ensued , Mrs. Maylie was ever ready and collected : performing all the duties which had devolved upon her , steadily , and , to all external appearances , even cheerfully .
But he was young , and did not know what strong minds are capable of , under trying circumstances .
How should he , when their possessors so seldom know themselves ?
When morning came , Mrs. Maylie 's predictions were but too well verified .
was in the first stage of a high and dangerous fever .
'We must be active , , and not give way to useless grief , ' said Mrs. Maylie , laying her finger on her lip , as she looked steadily into his face ; 'this letter must be sent , with all possible expedition , to .
It must be carried to the market-town : which is not more than four miles off , by the footpath across the field : and thence dispatched , by an express on horseback , straight to .
The people at the inn will undertake to do this : and I can trust to you to see it done , I know . '
could make no reply , but looked his anxiety to be gone at once .
'Here is another letter , ' said Mrs. Maylie , pausing to reflect ; 'but whether to send it now , or wait until I see how goes on , I scarcely know .
I would not forward it , unless I feared the worst . '
'Is it for , too , ma'am ? '
inquired ; impatient to execute his commission , and holding out his trembling hand for the letter .
'No , ' replied the old lady , giving it to him mechanically .
Oliver glanced at it , and saw that it was directed to , , at some great lord 's house in the country ; where , he could not make out .
asked , looking up , impatiently .
' I think not , ' replied Mrs. Maylie , taking it back .
' I will wait until to-morrow . '
With these words , she gave her purse , and he started off , without more delay , at the greatest speed he could muster .
Swiftly he ran across the fields , and down the little lanes which sometimes divided them : now almost hidden by the high corn on either side , and now emerging on an open field , where the mowers and haymakers were busy at their work : nor did he stop once , save now and then , for a few seconds , to recover breath , until he came , in a great heat , and covered with dust , on the little market-place of the market-town .
Here he paused , and looked about for the inn .
There were a white bank , and a red brewery , and a yellow town-hall ; and in one corner there was a large house , with all the wood about it painted green : before which was the sign of 'The . '
To this he hastened , as soon as it caught his eye .
He spoke to a postboy who was dozing under the gateway ; and who , after hearing what he wanted , referred him to the ostler ; who after hearing all he had to say again , referred him to the landlord ; who was a tall gentleman in a blue neckcloth , a white hat , drab breeches , and boots with tops to match , leaning against a pump by the stable-door , picking his teeth with a silver toothpick .
This gentleman walked with much deliberation into the bar to make out the bill : which took a long time making out : and after it was ready , and paid , a horse had to be saddled , and a man to be dressed , which took up ten good minutes more .
Meanwhile was in such a desperate state of impatience and anxiety , that he felt as if he could have jumped upon the horse himself , and galloped away , full tear , to the next stage .
At length , all was ready ; and the little parcel having been handed up , with many injunctions and entreaties for its speedy delivery , the man set spurs to his horse , and rattling over the uneven paving of the market-place , was out of the town , and galloping along the turnpike-road , in a couple of minutes .
As it was something to feel certain that assistance was sent for , and that no time had been lost , hurried up the inn-yard , with a somewhat lighter heart .
He was turning out of the gateway when he accidently stumbled against a tall man wrapped in a cloak , who was at that moment coming out of the inn door .
cried the man , fixing his eyes on , and suddenly recoiling .
' I beg your pardon , sir , ' said ; ' I was in a great hurry to get home , and did n't see you were coming . '
muttered the man to himself , glaring at the boy with his large dark eyes .
'Who would have thought it !
He 'd start up from a stone coffin , to come in my way ! '
' I am sorry , ' stammered , confused by the strange man 's wild look .
' I hope I have not hurt you ! '
murmured the man , in a horrible passion ; between his clenched teeth ; 'if I had only had the courage to say the word , I might have been free of you in a night .
Curses on your head , and black death on your heart , you imp !
What are you doing here ? '
The man shook his fist , as he uttered these words incoherently .
He advanced towards , as if with the intention of aiming a blow at him , but fell violently on the ground : writhing and foaming , in a fit .
gazed , for a moment , at the struggles of the madman ( for such he supposed him to be ) ; and then darted into the house for help .
Having seen him safely carried into the hotel , he turned his face homewards , running as fast as he could , to make up for lost time : and recalling with a great deal of astonishment and some fear , the extraordinary behaviour of the person from whom he had just parted .
The circumstance did not dwell in his recollection long , however : for when he reached the cottage , there was enough to occupy his mind , and to drive all considerations of self completely from his memory .
had rapidly grown worse ; before mid-night she was delirious .
A medical practitioner , who resided on the spot , was in constant attendance upon her ; and after first seeing the patient , he had taken Mrs. Maylie aside , and pronounced her disorder to be one of a most alarming nature .
'In fact , ' he said , 'it would be little short of a miracle , if she recovered . '
How often did start from his bed that night , and stealing out , with noiseless footstep , to the staircase , listen for the slightest sound from the sick chamber !
How often did a tremble shake his frame , and cold drops of terror start upon his brow , when a sudden trampling of feet caused him to fear that something too dreadful to think of , had even then occurred !
And what had been the fervency of all the prayers he had ever muttered , compared with those he poured forth , now , in the agony and passion of his supplication for the life and health of the gentle creature , who was tottering on the deep grave 's verge !
the suspense , the fearful , acute suspense , of standing idly by while the life of one we dearly love , is trembling in the balance !
the racking thoughts that crowd upon the mind , and make the heart beat violently , and the breath come thick , by the force of the images they conjure up before it ; the desperate anxiety _to be doing something_ to relieve the pain , or lessen the danger , which we have no power to alleviate ; the sinking of soul and spirit , which the sad remembrance of our helplessness produces ; what tortures can equal these ; what reflections or endeavours can , in the full tide and fever of the time , allay them !
Morning came ; and the little cottage was lonely and still .
People spoke in whispers ; anxious faces appeared at the gate , from time to time ; women and children went away in tears .
All the livelong day , and for hours after it had grown dark , paced softly up and down the garden , raising his eyes every instant to the sick chamber , and shuddering to see the darkened window , looking as if death lay stretched inside .
Late that night , arrived .
'It is hard , ' said the good doctor , turning away as he spoke ; 'so young ; so much beloved ; but there is very little hope . '
The sun shone brightly ; as brightly as if it looked upon no misery or care ; and , with every leaf and flower in full bloom about her ; with life , and health , and sounds and sights of joy , surrounding her on every side : the fair young creature lay , wasting fast .
crept away to the old churchyard , and sitting down on one of the green mounds , wept and prayed for her , in silence .
There was such peace and beauty in the scene ; so much of brightness and mirth in the sunny landscape ; such blithesome music in the songs of the summer birds ; such freedom in the rapid flight of the rook , careering overhead ; so much of life and joyousness in all ; that , when the boy raised his aching eyes , and looked about , the thought instinctively occurred to him , that this was not a time for death ; that could surely never die when humbler things were all so glad and gay ; that graves were for cold and cheerless winter : not for sunlight and fragrance .
He almost thought that shrouds were for the old and shrunken ; and that they never wrapped the young and graceful form in their ghastly folds .
A knell from the church bell broke harshly on these youthful thoughts .
It was tolling for the funeral service .
A group of humble mourners entered the gate : wearing white favours ; for the corpse was young .
They stood uncovered by a grave ; and there was a mother -- a mother once -- among the weeping train .
But the sun shone brightly , and the birds sang on .
Oliver turned homeward , thinking on the many kindnesses he had received from the young lady , and wishing that the time could come again , that he might never cease showing her how grateful and attached he was .
He had no cause for self-reproach on the score of neglect , or want of thought , for he had been devoted to her service ; and yet a hundred little occasions rose up before him , on which he fancied he might have been more zealous , and more earnest , and wished he had been .
We need be careful how we deal with those about us , when every death carries to some small circle of survivors , thoughts of so much omitted , and so little done -- of so many things forgotten , and so many more which might have been repaired !
There is no remorse so deep as that which is unavailing ; if we would be spared its tortures , let us remember this , in time .
When he reached home Mrs. Maylie was sitting in the little parlour .
's heart sank at sight of her ; for she had never left the bedside of her niece ; and he trembled to think what change could have driven her away .
He learnt that she had fallen into a deep sleep , from which she would waken , either to recovery and life , or to bid them farewell , and die .
They sat , listening , and afraid to speak , for hours .
The untasted meal was removed , with looks which showed that their thoughts were elsewhere , they watched the sun as he sank lower and lower , and , at length , cast over sky and earth those brilliant hues which herald his departure .
Their quick ears caught the sound of an approaching footstep .
They both involuntarily darted to the door , as entered .
I can bear it ; anything but suspense !
in the name of ! '
'You must compose yourself , ' said the doctor supporting her .
'Be calm , my dear ma'am , pray . '
'Let me go , in 's name !
'As He is good and merciful , she will live to bless us all , for years to come . '
The lady fell upon her knees , and tried to fold her hands together ; but the energy which had supported her so long , fled up to Heaven with her first thanksgiving ; and she sank into the friendly arms which were extended to receive her .
It was almost too much happiness to bear .
felt stunned and stupefied by the unexpected intelligence ; he could not weep , or speak , or rest .
He had scarcely the power of understanding anything that had passed , until , after a long ramble in the quiet evening air , a burst of tears came to his relief , and he seemed to awaken , all at once , to a full sense of the joyful change that had occurred , and the almost insupportable load of anguish which had been taken from his breast .
The night was fast closing in , when he returned homeward : laden with flowers which he had culled , with peculiar care , for the adornment of the sick chamber .
As he walked briskly along the road , he heard behind him , the noise of some vehicle , approaching at a furious pace .
Looking round , he saw that it was a post-chaise , driven at great speed ; and as the horses were galloping , and the road was narrow , he stood leaning against a gate until it should have passed him .
As it dashed on , caught a glimpse of a man in a white nightcap , whose face seemed familiar to him , although his view was so brief that he could not identify the person .
In another second or two , the nightcap was thrust out of the chaise-window , and a stentorian voice bellowed to the driver to stop : which he did , as soon as he could pull up his horses .
Then , the nightcap once again appeared : and the same voice called Oliver by his name .
cried , running up to the chaise-door .
popped out his nightcap again , preparatory to making some reply , when he was suddenly pulled back by a young gentleman who occupied the other corner of the chaise , and who eagerly demanded what was the news .
cried the gentleman , 'Better or worse ? '
'The change took place only a few hours ago ; and says , that all danger is at an end . '
The gentleman said not another word , but , opening the chaise-door , leaped out , and taking hurriedly by the arm , led him aside .
There is no possibility of any mistake on your part , my boy , is there ? '
demanded the gentleman in a tremulous voice .
'Do not deceive me , by awakening hopes that are not to be fulfilled . '
' I would not for the world , sir , ' replied .
'Indeed you may believe me .
's words were , that she would live to bless us all for many years to come .
I heard him say so . '
The tears stood in 's eyes as he recalled the scene which was the beginning of so much happiness ; and the gentleman turned his face away , and remained silent , for some minutes .
Oliver thought he heard him sob , more than once ; but he feared to interrupt him by any fresh remark -- for he could well guess what his feelings were -- and so stood apart , feigning to be occupied with his nosegay .
All this time , , with the white nightcap on , had been sitting on the steps of the chaise , supporting an elbow on each knee , and wiping his eyes with a blue cotton pocket-handkerchief dotted with white spots .
That the honest fellow had not been feigning emotion , was abundantly demonstrated by the very red eyes with which he regarded the young gentleman , when he turned round and addressed him .
' I think you had better go on to my mother 's in the chaise , , ' said he .
' I would rather walk slowly on , so as to gain a little time before I see her .
You can say I am coming . '
' I beg your pardon , , ' said : giving a final polish to his ruffled countenance with the handkerchief ; 'but if you would leave the postboy to say that , I should be very much obliged to you .
It would n't be proper for the maids to see me in this state , sir ; I should never have any more authority with them if they did . '
'Well , ' rejoined , smiling , 'you can do as you like .
Let him go on with the luggage , if you wish it , and do you follow with us .
Only first exchange that nightcap for some more appropriate covering , or we shall be taken for madmen . '
, reminded of his unbecoming costume , snatched off and pocketed his nightcap ; and substituted a hat , of grave and sober shape , which he took out of the chaise .
This done , the postboy drove off ; , , and , followed at their leisure .
As they walked along , glanced from time to time with much interest and curiosity at the new comer .
He seemed about five-and-twenty years of age , and was of the middle height ; his countenance was frank and handsome ; and his demeanor easy and prepossessing .
Notwithstanding the difference between youth and age , he bore so strong a likeness to the old lady , that would have had no great difficulty in imagining their relationship , if he had not already spoken of her as his mother .
Mrs. Maylie was anxiously waiting to receive her son when he reached the cottage .
The meeting did not take place without great emotion on both sides .
whispered the young man ; 'why did you not write before ? '
' I did , ' replied Mrs. Maylie ; 'but , on reflection , I determined to keep back the letter until I had heard 's opinion . '
'But why , ' said the young man , 'why run the chance of that occurring which so nearly happened ?
If had -- I can not utter that word now -- if this illness had terminated differently , how could you ever have forgiven yourself !
How could I ever have know happiness again ! '
'If that _had_ been the case , , ' said Mrs. Maylie , ' I fear your happiness would have been effectually blighted , and that your arrival here , a day sooner or a day later , would have been of very , very little import . '
'And who can wonder if it be so , mother ? '
rejoined the young man ; 'or why should I say , _if_ ? -- It is -- it is -- you know it , mother -- you must know it ! '
' I know that she deserves the best and purest love the heart of man can offer , ' said Mrs. Maylie ; ' I know that the devotion and affection of her nature require no ordinary return , but one that shall be deep and lasting .
If I did not feel this , and know , besides , that a changed behaviour in one she loved would break her heart , I should not feel my task so difficult of performance , or have to encounter so many struggles in my own bosom , when I take what seems to me to be the strict line of duty . '
'This is unkind , mother , ' said .
'Do you still suppose that I am a boy ignorant of my own mind , and mistaking the impulses of my own soul ? '
' I think , my dear son , ' returned Mrs. Maylie , laying her hand upon his shoulder , 'that youth has many generous impulses which do not last ; and that among them are some , which , being gratified , become only the more fleeting .
Above all , I think ' said the lady , fixing her eyes on her son 's face , 'that if an enthusiastic , ardent , and ambitious man marry a wife on whose name there is a stain , which , though it originate in no fault of hers , may be visited by cold and sordid people upon her , and upon his children also : and , in exact proportion to his success in the world , be cast in his teeth , and made the subject of sneers against him : he may , no matter how generous and good his nature , one day repent of the connection he formed in early life .
And she may have the pain of knowing that he does so . '
'Mother , ' said the young man , impatiently , 'he would be a selfish brute , unworthy alike of the name of man and of the woman you describe , who acted thus . '
'You think so now , , ' replied his mother .
'The mental agony I have suffered , during the last two days , wrings from me the avowal to you of a passion which , as you well know , is not one of yesterday , nor one I have lightly formed .
On , sweet , gentle girl !
my heart is set , as firmly as ever heart of man was set on woman .
I have no thought , no view , no hope in life , beyond her ; and if you oppose me in this great stake , you take my peace and happiness in your hands , and cast them to the wind .
, think better of this , and of me , and do not disregard the happiness of which you seem to think so little . '
'Harry , ' said Mrs. Maylie , 'it is because I think so much of warm and sensitive hearts , that I would spare them from being wounded .
But we have said enough , and more than enough , on this matter , just now . '
'Let it rest with , then , ' interposed .
'You will not press these overstrained opinions of yours , so far , as to throw any obstacle in my way ? '
' I will not , ' rejoined Mrs. Maylie ; 'but I would have you consider -- ' ' I _have_ considered ! '
was the impatient reply ; 'Mother , I have considered , years and years .
I have considered , ever since I have been capable of serious reflection .
My feelings remain unchanged , as they ever will ; and why should I suffer the pain of a delay in giving them vent , which can be productive of no earthly good ?
Before I leave this place , shall hear me . '
'She shall , ' said Mrs. Maylie .
'There is something in your manner , which would almost imply that she will hear me coldly , mother , ' said the young man .
'Not coldly , ' rejoined the old lady ; 'far from it . '
'She has formed no other attachment ? '
'No , indeed , ' replied his mother ; 'you have , or I mistake , too strong a hold on her affections already .
What I would say , ' resumed the old lady , stopping her son as he was about to speak , 'is this .
Before you stake your all on this chance ; before you suffer yourself to be carried to the highest point of hope ; reflect for a few moments , my dear child , on 's history , and consider what effect the knowledge of her doubtful birth may have on her decision : devoted as she is to us , with all the intensity of her noble mind , and with that perfect sacrifice of self which , in all matters , great or trifling , has always been her characteristic . '
'That I leave you to discover , ' replied Mrs. Maylie .
' I must go back to her .
' I shall see you again to-night ? '
said the young man , eagerly .
'By and by , ' replied the lady ; 'when I leave . '
'You will tell her I am here ? '
'Of course , ' replied Mrs. Maylie .
'And say how anxious I have been , and how much I have suffered , and how I long to see her .
You will not refuse to do this , mother ? '
'No , ' said the old lady ; ' I will tell her all . '
And pressing her son 's hand , affectionately , she hastened from the room .
and had remained at another end of the apartment while this hurried conversation was proceeding .
The former now held out his hand to ; and hearty salutations were exchanged between them .
The doctor then communicated , in reply to multifarious questions from his young friend , a precise account of his patient 's situation ; which was quite as consolatory and full of promise , as 's statement had encouraged him to hope ; and to the whole of which , , who affected to be busy about the luggage , listened with greedy ears .
'Have you shot anything particular , lately , ? '
inquired the doctor , when he had concluded .
'Nothing particular , sir , ' replied , colouring up to the eyes .
'Nor catching any thieves , nor identifying any house-breakers ? '
'None at all , sir , ' replied , with much gravity .
'Well , ' said the doctor , ' I am sorry to hear it , because you do that sort of thing admirably .
'The boy is very well , sir , ' said , recovering his usual tone of patronage ; 'and sends his respectful duty , sir . '
'That 's well , ' said the doctor .
'Seeing you here , reminds me , , that on the day before that on which I was called away so hurriedly , I executed , at the request of your good mistress , a small commission in your favour .
Just step into this corner a moment , will you ? '
walked into the corner with much importance , and some wonder , and was honoured with a short whispering conference with the doctor , on the termination of which , he made a great many bows , and retired with steps of unusual stateliness .
The subject matter of this conference was not disclosed in the parlour , but the kitchen was speedily enlightened concerning it ; for walked straight thither , and having called for a mug of ale , announced , with an air of majesty , which was highly effective , that it had pleased his mistress , in consideration of his gallant behaviour on the occasion of that attempted robbery , to deposit , in the local savings-bank , the sum of five-and-twenty pounds , for his sole use and benefit .
At this , the two women-servants lifted up their hands and eyes , and supposed that , pulling out his shirt-frill , replied , 'No , no ' ; and that if they observed that he was at all haughty to his inferiors , he would thank them to tell him so .
And then he made a great many other remarks , no less illustrative of his humility , which were received with equal favour and applause , and were , withal , as original and as much to the purpose , as the remarks of great men commonly are .
Above stairs , the remainder of the evening passed cheerfully away ; for the doctor was in high spirits ; and however fatigued or thoughtful might have been at first , he was not proof against the worthy gentleman 's good humour , which displayed itself in a great variety of sallies and professional recollections , and an abundance of small jokes , which struck as being the drollest things he had ever heard , and caused him to laugh proportionately ; to the evident satisfaction of the doctor , who laughed immoderately at himself , and made laugh almost as heartily , by the very force of sympathy .
So , they were as pleasant a party as , under the circumstances , they could well have been ; and it was late before they retired , with light and thankful hearts , to take that rest of which , after the doubt and suspense they had recently undergone , they stood much in need .
Oliver rose next morning , in better heart , and went about his usual occupations , with more hope and pleasure than he had known for many days .
The birds were once more hung out , to sing , in their old places ; and the sweetest wild flowers that could be found , were once more gathered to gladden with their beauty .
The melancholy which had seemed to the sad eyes of the anxious boy to hang , for days past , over every object , beautiful as all were , was dispelled by magic .
The dew seemed to sparkle more brightly on the green leaves ; the air to rustle among them with a sweeter music ; and the sky itself to look more blue and bright .
is the influence which the condition of our own thoughts , exercise , even over the appearance of external objects .
Men who look on nature , and their fellow-men , and cry that all is dark and gloomy , are in the right ; but the sombre colours are reflections from their own jaundiced eyes and hearts .
The real hues are delicate , and need a clearer vision .
It is worthy of remark , and did not fail to note it at the time , that his morning expeditions were no longer made alone .
, after the very first morning when he met coming laden home , was seized with such a passion for flowers , and displayed such a taste in their arrangement , as left his young companion far behind .
If were behindhand in these respects , he knew where the best were to be found ; and morning after morning they scoured the country together , and brought home the fairest that blossomed .
The window of the young lady 's chamber was opened now ; for she loved to feel the rich summer air stream in , and revive her with its freshness ; but there always stood in water , just inside the lattice , one particular little bunch , which was made up with great care , every morning .
could not help noticing that the withered flowers were never thrown away , although the little vase was regularly replenished ; nor , could he help observing , that whenever the doctor came into the garden , he invariably cast his eyes up to that particular corner , and nodded his head most expressively , as he set forth on his morning 's walk .
Pending these observations , the days were flying by ; and was rapidly recovering .
Nor did 's time hang heavy on his hands , although the young lady had not yet left her chamber , and there were no evening walks , save now and then , for a short distance , with Mrs. Maylie .
He applied himself , with redoubled assiduity , to the instructions of the white-headed old gentleman , and laboured so hard that his quick progress surprised even himself .
It was while he was engaged in this pursuit , that he was greatly startled and distressed by a most unexpected occurrence .
The little room in which he was accustomed to sit , when busy at his books , was on the ground-floor , at the back of the house .
It was quite a cottage-room , with a lattice-window : around which were clusters of jessamine and honeysuckle , that crept over the casement , and filled the place with their delicious perfume .
It looked into a garden , whence a wicket-gate opened into a small paddock ; all beyond , was fine meadow-land and wood .
There was no other dwelling near , in that direction ; and the prospect it commanded was very extensive .
One beautiful evening , when the first shades of twilight were beginning to settle upon the earth , sat at this window , intent upon his books .
He had been poring over them for some time ; and , as the day had been uncommonly sultry , and he had exerted himself a great deal , it is no disparagement to the authors , whoever they may have been , to say , that gradually and by slow degrees , he fell asleep .
There is a kind of sleep that steals upon us sometimes , which , while it holds the body prisoner , does not free the mind from a sense of things about it , and enable it to ramble at its pleasure .
So far as an overpowering heaviness , a prostration of strength , and an utter inability to control our thoughts or power of motion , can be called sleep , this is it ; and yet , we have a consciousness of all that is going on about us , and , if we dream at such a time , words which are really spoken , or sounds which really exist at the moment , accommodate themselves with surprising readiness to our visions , until reality and imagination become so strangely blended that it is afterwards almost matter of impossibility to separate the two .
Nor is this , the most striking phenomenon incidental to such a state .
It is an undoubted fact , that although our senses of touch and sight be for the time dead , yet our sleeping thoughts , and the visionary scenes that pass before us , will be influenced and materially influenced , by the _mere silent presence_ of some external object ; which may not have been near us when we closed our eyes : and of whose vicinity we have had no waking consciousness .
knew , perfectly well , that he was in his own little room ; that his books were lying on the table before him ; that the sweet air was stirring among the creeping plants outside .
And yet he was asleep .
Suddenly , the scene changed ; the air became close and confined ; and he thought , with a glow of terror , that he was in the 's house again .
There sat the hideous old man , in his accustomed corner , pointing at him , and whispering to another man , with his face averted , who sat beside him .
he thought he heard the Jew say ; 'it is he , sure enough .
the other man seemed to answer ; 'could I mistake him , think you ?
If a crowd of ghosts were to put themselves into his exact shape , and he stood amongst them , there is something that would tell me how to point him out .
If you buried him fifty feet deep , and took me across his grave , I fancy I should know , if there was n't a mark above it , that he lay buried there ? '
The man seemed to say this , with such dreadful hatred , that awoke with the fear , and started up .
what was that , which sent the blood tingling to his heart , and deprived him of his voice , and of power to move !
There -- there -- at the window -- close before him -- so close , that he could have almost touched him before he started back : with his eyes peering into the room , and meeting his : there stood the Jew !
And beside him , white with rage or fear , or both , were the scowling features of the man who had accosted him in the inn-yard .
It was but an instant , a glance , a flash , before his eyes ; and they were gone .
But they had recognised him , and he them ; and their look was as firmly impressed upon his memory , as if it had been deeply carved in stone , and set before him from his birth .
He stood transfixed for a moment ; then , leaping from the window into the garden , called loudly for help .
When the inmates of the house , attracted by 's cries , hurried to the spot from which they proceeded , they found him , pale and agitated , pointing in the direction of the meadows behind the house , and scarcely able to articulate the words , 'The Jew !
was at a loss to comprehend what this outcry meant ; but , whose perceptions were something quicker , and who had heard 's history from his mother , understood it at once .
'What direction did he take ? '
he asked , catching up a heavy stick which was standing in a corner .
'That , ' replied , pointing out the course the man had taken ; ' I missed them in an instant . '
'Then , they are in the ditch ! '
And keep as near me , as you can . '
So saying , he sprang over the hedge , and darted off with a speed which rendered it matter of exceeding difficulty for the others to keep near him .
followed as well as he could ; and followed too ; and in the course of a minute or two , , who had been out walking , and just then returned , tumbled over the hedge after them , and picking himself up with more agility than he could have been supposed to possess , struck into the same course at no contemptible speed , shouting all the while , most prodigiously , to know what was the matter .
On they all went ; nor stopped they once to breathe , until the leader , striking off into an angle of the field indicated by , began to search , narrowly , the ditch and hedge adjoining ; which afforded time for the remainder of the party to come up ; and for to communicate to the circumstances that had led to so vigorous a pursuit .
The search was all in vain .
There were not even the traces of recent footsteps , to be seen .
They stood now , on the summit of a little hill , commanding the open fields in every direction for three or four miles .
There was the village in the hollow on the left ; but , in order to gain that , after pursuing the track had pointed out , the men must have made a circuit of open ground , which it was impossible they could have accomplished in so short a time .
A thick wood skirted the meadow-land in another direction ; but they could not have gained that covert for the same reason .
'It must have been a dream , , ' said .
'Oh no , indeed , sir , ' replied , shuddering at the very recollection of the old wretch 's countenance ; ' I saw him too plainly for that .
I saw them both , as plainly as I see you now . '
inquired and , together .
'The very same man I told you of , who came so suddenly upon me at the inn , ' said .
'We had our eyes fixed full upon each other ; and I could swear to him . '
demanded : 'are you sure ? '
'As I am that the men were at the window , ' replied , pointing down , as he spoke , to the hedge which divided the cottage-garden from the meadow .
'The tall man leaped over , just there ; and the Jew , running a few paces to the right , crept through that gap . '
The two gentlemen watched 's earnest face , as he spoke , and looking from him to each other , seemed to feel satisfied of the accuracy of what he said .
Still , in no direction were there any appearances of the trampling of men in hurried flight .
The grass was long ; but it was trodden down nowhere , save where their own feet had crushed it .
The sides and brinks of the ditches were of damp clay ; but in no one place could they discern the print of men 's shoes , or the slightest mark which would indicate that any feet had pressed the ground for hours before .
'Blathers and , themselves , could make nothing of it . '
Notwithstanding the evidently useless nature of their search , they did not desist until the coming on of night rendered its further prosecution hopeless ; and even then , they gave it up with reluctance .
was dispatched to the different ale-houses in the village , furnished with the best description could give of the appearance and dress of the strangers .
Of these , the Jew was , at all events , sufficiently remarkable to be remembered , supposing he had been seen drinking , or loitering about ; but returned without any intelligence , calculated to dispel or lessen the mystery .
On the next day , fresh search was made , and the inquiries renewed ; but with no better success .
On the day following , and repaired to the market-town , in the hope of seeing or hearing something of the men there ; but this effort was equally fruitless .
After a few days , the affair began to be forgotten , as most affairs are , when wonder , having no fresh food to support it , dies away of itself .
Meanwhile , was rapidly recovering .
She had left her room : was able to go out ; and mixing once more with the family , carried joy into the hearts of all .
But , although this happy change had a visible effect on the little circle ; and although cheerful voices and merry laughter were once more heard in the cottage ; there was at times , an unwonted restraint upon some there : even upon Rose herself : which could not fail to remark .
Mrs. Maylie and her son were often closeted together for a long time ; and more than once appeared with traces of tears upon her face .
After had fixed a day for his departure to , these symptoms increased ; and it became evident that something was in progress which affected the peace of the young lady , and of somebody else besides .
At length , one morning , when was alone in the breakfast-parlour , entered ; and , with some hesitation , begged permission to speak with her for a few moments .
' A few -- a very few -- will suffice , , ' said the young man , drawing his chair towards her .
'What I shall have to say , has already presented itself to your mind ; the most cherished hopes of my heart are not unknown to you , though from my lips you have not heard them stated . '
had been very pale from the moment of his entrance ; but that might have been the effect of her recent illness .
She merely bowed ; and bending over some plants that stood near , waited in silence for him to proceed .
' I -- I -- ought to have left here , before , ' said .
'You should , indeed , ' replied .
'Forgive me for saying so , but I wish you had . '
' I was brought here , by the most dreadful and agonising of all apprehensions , ' said the young man ; 'the fear of losing the one dear being on whom my every wish and hope are fixed .
You had been dying ; trembling between earth and heaven .
We know that when the young , the beautiful , and good , are visited with sickness , their pure spirits insensibly turn towards their bright home of lasting rest ; we know , help us !
that the best and fairest of our kind , too often fade in blooming . '
There were tears in the eyes of the gentle girl , as these words were spoken ; and when one fell upon the flower over which she bent , and glistened brightly in its cup , making it more beautiful , it seemed as though the outpouring of her fresh young heart , claimed kindred naturally , with the loveliest things in nature .
' A creature , ' continued the young man , passionately , ' a creature as fair and innocent of guile as one of 's own angels , fluttered between life and death .
who could hope , when the distant world to which she was akin , half opened to her view , that she would return to the sorrow and calamity of this !
, , to know that you were passing away like some soft shadow , which a light from above , casts upon the earth ; to have no hope that you would be spared to those who linger here ; hardly to know a reason why you should be ; to feel that you belonged to that bright sphere whither so many of the fairest and the best have winged their early flight ; and yet to pray , amid all these consolations , that you might be restored to those who loved you -- these were distractions almost too great to bear .
They were mine , by day and night ; and with them , came such a rushing torrent of fears , and apprehensions , and selfish regrets , lest you should die , and never know how devotedly I loved you , as almost bore down sense and reason in its course .
Day by day , and almost hour by hour , some drop of health came back , and mingling with the spent and feeble stream of life which circulated languidly within you , swelled it again to a high and rushing tide .
I have watched you change almost from death , to life , with eyes that turned blind with their eagerness and deep affection .
Do not tell me that you wish I had lost this ; for it has softened my heart to all mankind . '
' I did not mean that , ' said , weeping ; ' I only wish you had left here , that you might have turned to high and noble pursuits again ; to pursuits well worthy of you . '
'There is no pursuit more worthy of me : more worthy of the highest nature that exists : than the struggle to win such a heart as yours , ' said the young man , taking her hand .
'Rose , my own dear !
For years -- for years -- I have loved you ; hoping to win my way to fame , and then come proudly home and tell you it had been pursued only for you to share ; thinking , in my daydreams , how I would remind you , in that happy moment , of the many silent tokens I had given of a boy 's attachment , and claim your hand , as in redemption of some old mute contract that had been sealed between us !
That time has not arrived ; but here , with not fame won , and no young vision realised , I offer you the heart so long your own , and stake my all upon the words with which you greet the offer . '
'Your behaviour has ever been kind and noble . '
said , mastering the emotions by which she was agitated .
'As you believe that I am not insensible or ungrateful , so hear my answer . '
'It is , that I may endeavour to deserve you ; it is , dear ? '
'It is , ' replied , 'that you must endeavour to forget me ; not as your old and dearly-attached companion , for that would wound me deeply ; but , as the object of your love .
Look into the world ; think how many hearts you would be proud to gain , are there .
Confide some other passion to me , if you will ; I will be the truest , warmest , and most faithful friend you have . '
There was a pause , during which , , who had covered her face with one hand , gave free vent to her tears .
still retained the other .
'And your reasons , , ' he said , at length , in a low voice ; 'your reasons for this decision ? '
'You have a right to know them , ' rejoined .
'You can say nothing to alter my resolution .
It is a duty that I must perform .
I owe it , alike to others , and to myself . '
I owe it to myself , that I , a friendless , portionless , girl , with a blight upon my name , should not give your friends reason to suspect that I had sordidly yielded to your first passion , and fastened myself , a clog , on all your hopes and projects .
I owe it to you and yours , to prevent you from opposing , in the warmth of your generous nature , this great obstacle to your progress in the world . '
'If your inclinations chime with your sense of duty -- ' began .
'They do not , ' replied , colouring deeply .
'Then you return my love ? '
'Say but that , dear ; say but that ; and soften the bitterness of this hard disappointment ! '
'If I could have done so , without doing heavy wrong to him I loved , ' rejoined , ' I could have -- ' 'Have received this declaration very differently ? '
'Do not conceal that from me , at least , . '
she added , disengaging her hand , 'why should we prolong this painful interview ?
Most painful to me , and yet productive of lasting happiness , notwithstanding ; for it _will_ be happiness to know that I once held the high place in your regard which I now occupy , and every triumph you achieve in life will animate me with new fortitude and firmness .
As we have met to-day , we meet no more ; but in other relations than those in which this conversation have placed us , we may be long and happily entwined ; and may every blessing that the prayers of a true and earnest heart can call down from the source of all truth and sincerity , cheer and prosper you ! '
'Another word , , ' said .
'Your reason in your own words .
From your own lips , let me hear it ! '
'The prospect before you , ' answered , firmly , 'is a brilliant one .
All the honours to which great talents and powerful connections can help men in public life , are in store for you .
But those connections are proud ; and I will neither mingle with such as may hold in scorn the mother who gave me life ; nor bring disgrace or failure on the son of her who has so well supplied that mother 's place .
In a word , ' said the young lady , turning away , as her temporary firmness forsook her , 'there is a stain upon my name , which the world visits on innocent heads .
I will carry it into no blood but my own ; and the reproach shall rest alone on me . '
cried , throwing himself before her .
'If I had been less -- less fortunate , the world would call it -- if some obscure and peaceful life had been my destiny -- if I had been poor , sick , helpless -- would you have turned from me then ?
Or has my probable advancement to riches and honour , given this scruple birth ? '
'Do not press me to reply , ' answered .
'The question does not arise , and never will .
It is unfair , almost unkind , to urge it . '
'If your answer be what I almost dare to hope it is , ' retorted , 'it will shed a gleam of happiness upon my lonely way , and light the path before me .
It is not an idle thing to do so much , by the utterance of a few brief words , for one who loves you beyond all else .
Oh , : in the name of my ardent and enduring attachment ; in the name of all I have suffered for you , and all you doom me to undergo ; answer me this one question ! '
'Then , if your lot had been differently cast , ' rejoined ; 'if you had been even a little , but not so far , above me ; if I could have been a help and comfort to you in any humble scene of peace and retirement , and not a blot and drawback in ambitious and distinguished crowds ; I should have been spared this trial .
I have every reason to be happy , very happy , now ; but then , , I own I should have been happier . '
Busy recollections of old hopes , cherished as a girl , long ago , crowded into the mind of , while making this avowal ; but they brought tears with them , as old hopes will when they come back withered ; and they relieved her .
' I can not help this weakness , and it makes my purpose stronger , ' said , extending her hand .
' I must leave you now , indeed . '
' I ask one promise , ' said .
'Once , and only once more , -- say within a year , but it may be much sooner , -- I may speak to you again on this subject , for the last time . '
'Not to press me to alter my right determination , ' replied , with a melancholy smile ; 'it will be useless . '
'No , ' said ; 'to hear you repeat it , if you will -- finally repeat it !
I will lay at your feet , whatever of station of fortune I may possess ; and if you still adhere to your present resolution , will not seek , by word or act , to change it . '
'Then let it be so , ' rejoined ; 'it is but one pang the more , and by that time I may be enabled to bear it better . '
She extended her hand again .
But the young man caught her to his bosom ; and imprinting one kiss on her beautiful forehead , hurried from the room .
'And so you are resolved to be my travelling companion this morning ; eh ? '
said the doctor , as joined him and at the breakfast-table .
'Why , you are not in the same mind or intention two half-hours together ! '
'You will tell me a different tale one of these days , ' said , colouring without any perceptible reason .
' I hope I may have good cause to do so , ' replied ; 'though I confess I do n't think I shall .
But yesterday morning you had made up your mind , in a great hurry , to stay here , and to accompany your mother , like a dutiful son , to the sea-side .
Before noon , you announce that you are going to do me the honour of accompanying me as far as I go , on your road to .
And at night , you urge me , with great mystery , to start before the ladies are stirring ; the consequence of which is , that young Oliver here is pinned down to his breakfast when he ought to be ranging the meadows after botanical phenomena of all kinds .
Too bad , is n't it , ? '
' I should have been very sorry not to have been at home when you and went away , sir , ' rejoined .
'That 's a fine fellow , ' said the doctor ; 'you shall come and see me when you return .
But , to speak seriously , ; has any communication from the great nobs produced this sudden anxiety on your part to be gone ? '
'The great nobs , ' replied , 'under which designation , I presume , you include my most stately uncle , have not communicated with me at all , since I have been here ; nor , at this time of the year , is it likely that anything would occur to render necessary my immediate attendance among them . '
'Well , ' said the doctor , 'you are a queer fellow .
But of course they will get you into parliament at the election before , and these sudden shiftings and changes are no bad preparation for political life .
training is always desirable , whether the race be for place , cup , or sweepstakes . '
looked as if he could have followed up this short dialogue by one or two remarks that would have staggered the doctor not a little ; but he contented himself with saying , 'We shall see , ' and pursued the subject no farther .
The post-chaise drove up to the door shortly afterwards ; and coming in for the luggage , the good doctor bustled out , to see it packed .
'Oliver , ' said , in a low voice , 'let me speak a word with you . '
Oliver walked into the window-recess to which beckoned him ; much surprised at the mixture of sadness and boisterous spirits , which his whole behaviour displayed .
'You can write well now ? '
said , laying his hand upon his arm .
' I hope so , sir , ' replied .
' I shall not be at home again , perhaps for some time ; I wish you would write to me -- say once a fort-night : every alternate Monday : to the Office in .
certainly , sir ; I shall be proud to do it , ' exclaimed , greatly delighted with the commission .
' I should like to know how -- how my mother and are , ' said the young man ; 'and you can fill up a sheet by telling me what walks you take , and what you talk about , and whether she -- they , I mean -- seem happy and quite well .
quite , sir , quite , ' replied .
' I would rather you did not mention it to them , ' said , hurrying over his words ; 'because it might make my mother anxious to write to me oftener , and it is a trouble and worry to her .
Let it be a secret between you and me ; and mind you tell me everything !
Oliver , quite elated and honoured by a sense of his importance , faithfully promised to be secret and explicit in his communications .
took leave of him , with many assurances of his regard and protection .
The doctor was in the chaise ; ( who , it had been arranged , should be left behind ) held the door open in his hand ; and the women-servants were in the garden , looking on .
cast one slight glance at the latticed window , and jumped into the carriage .
he cried , 'hard , fast , full gallop !
Nothing short of flying will keep pace with me , to-day . '
cried the doctor , letting down the front glass in a great hurry , and shouting to the postillion ; 'something very short of flying will keep pace with _me_ .
Jingling and clattering , till distance rendered its noise inaudible , and its rapid progress only perceptible to the eye , the vehicle wound its way along the road , almost hidden in a cloud of dust : now wholly disappearing , and now becoming visible again , as intervening objects , or the intricacies of the way , permitted .
It was not until even the dusty cloud was no longer to be seen , that the gazers dispersed .
And there was one looker-on , who remained with eyes fixed upon the spot where the carriage had disappeared , long after it was many miles away ; for , behind the white curtain which had shrouded her from view when raised his eyes towards the window , sat herself .
'He seems in high spirits and happy , ' she said , at length .
' I feared for a time he might be otherwise .
I am very , very glad . '
Tears are signs of gladness as well as grief ; but those which coursed down 's face , as she sat pensively at the window , still gazing in the same direction , seemed to tell more of sorrow than of joy .
sat in the workhouse parlour , with his eyes moodily fixed on the cheerless grate , whence , as it was summer time , no brighter gleam proceeded , than the reflection of certain sickly rays of the sun , which were sent back from its cold and shining surface .
A paper fly-cage dangled from the ceiling , to which he occasionally raised his eyes in gloomy thought ; and , as the heedless insects hovered round the gaudy net-work , would heave a deep sigh , while a more gloomy shadow overspread his countenance .
was meditating ; it might be that the insects brought to mind , some painful passage in his own past life .
Nor was 's gloom the only thing calculated to awaken a pleasing melancholy in the bosom of a spectator .
There were not wanting other appearances , and those closely connected with his own person , which announced that a great change had taken place in the position of his affairs .
The laced coat , and the cocked hat ; where were they ?
He still wore knee-breeches , and dark cotton stockings on his nether limbs ; but they were not _the_ breeches .
The coat was wide-skirted ; and in that respect like _the_ coat , but , oh how different !
The mighty cocked hat was replaced by a modest round one .
was no longer a beadle .
There are some promotions in life , which , independent of the more substantial rewards they offer , require peculiar value and dignity from the coats and waistcoats connected with them .
A field-marshal has his uniform ; a bishop his silk apron ; a counsellor his silk gown ; a beadle his cocked hat .
Strip the bishop of his apron , or the beadle of his hat and lace ; what are they ?
, and even holiness too , sometimes , are more questions of coat and waistcoat than some people imagine .
had married Mrs. Corney , and was master of the workhouse .
Another beadle had come into power .
On him the cocked hat , gold-laced coat , and staff , had all three descended .
'And to-morrow two months it was done ! '
said , with a sigh .
might have meant that he had concentrated a whole existence of happiness into the short space of eight weeks ; but the sigh -- there was a vast deal of meaning in the sigh .
' I sold myself , ' said , pursuing the same train of relection , 'for six teaspoons , a pair of sugar-tongs , and a milk-pot ; with a small quantity of second-hand furniture , and twenty pound in money .
cried a shrill voice in 's ear : 'you would have been dear at any price ; and dear enough I paid for you , above knows that ! '
turned , and encountered the face of his interesting consort , who , imperfectly comprehending the few words she had overheard of his complaint , had hazarded the foregoing remark at a venture .
said , with a sentimental sternness .
'Have the goodness to look at me , ' said , fixing his eyes upon her .
( If she stands such a eye as that , ' said to himself , 'she can stand anything .
It is a eye I never knew to fail with paupers .
If it fails with her , my power is gone . ' )
Whether an exceedingly small expansion of eye be sufficient to quell paupers , who , being lightly fed , are in no very high condition ; or whether the late Mrs. was particularly proof against eagle glances ; are matters of opinion .
The matter of fact , is , that the matron was in no way overpowered by 's scowl , but , on the contrary , treated it with great disdain , and even raised a laugh thereat , which sounded as though it were genuine .
On hearing this most unexpected sound , looked , first incredulous , and afterwards amazed .
He then relapsed into his former state ; nor did he rouse himself until his attention was again awakened by the voice of his partner .
'Are you going to sit snoring there , all day ? '
' I am going to sit here , as long as I think proper , ma'am , ' rejoined ; 'and although I was _not_ snoring , I shall snore , gape , sneeze , laugh , or cry , as the humour strikes me ; such being my prerogative . '
sneered Mrs. Bumble , with ineffable contempt .
' I said the word , ma'am , ' said .
'The prerogative of a man is to command . '
'And what 's the prerogative of a woman , in the name of ? '
cried the relict of deceased .
'To obey , ma'am , ' thundered .
'Your late unfortunate husband should have taught it you ; and then , perhaps , he might have been alive now .
I wish he was , poor man ! '
Mrs. Bumble , seeing at a glance , that the decisive moment had now arrived , and that a blow struck for the mastership on one side or other , must necessarily be final and conclusive , no sooner heard this allusion to the dead and gone , than she dropped into a chair , and with a loud scream that was a hard-hearted brute , fell into a paroxysm of tears .
But , tears were not the things to find their way to 's soul ; his heart was waterproof .
Like washable beaver hats that improve with rain , his nerves were rendered stouter and more vigorous , by showers of tears , which , being tokens of weakness , and so far tacit admissions of his own power , pleased and exalted him .
He eyed his good lady with looks of great satisfaction , and begged , in an encouraging manner , that she should cry her hardest : the exercise being looked upon , by the faculty , as strongly conducive to health .
'It opens the lungs , washes the countenance , exercises the eyes , and softens down the temper , ' said .
As he discharged himself of this pleasantry , took his hat from a peg , and putting it on , rather rakishly , on one side , as a man might , who felt he had asserted his superiority in a becoming manner , thrust his hands into his pockets , and sauntered towards the door , with much ease and waggishness depicted in his whole appearance .
Now , Mrs. Corney that was , had tried the tears , because they were less troublesome than a manual assault ; but , she was quite prepared to make trial of the latter mode of proceeding , as was not long in discovering .
The first proof he experienced of the fact , was conveyed in a hollow sound , immediately succeeded by the sudden flying off of his hat to the opposite end of the room .
This preliminary proceeding laying bare his head , the expert lady , clasping him tightly round the throat with one hand , inflicted a shower of blows ( dealt with singular vigour and dexterity ) upon it with the other .
This done , she created a little variety by scratching his face , and tearing his hair ; and , having , by this time , inflicted as much punishment as she deemed necessary for the offence , she pushed him over a chair , which was luckily well situated for the purpose : and defied him to talk about his prerogative again , if he dared .
said Mrs. Bumble , in a voice of command .
'And take yourself away from here , unless you want me to do something desperate . '
rose with a very rueful countenance : wondering much what something desperate might be .
Picking up his hat , he looked towards the door .
'Certainly , my dear , certainly , ' rejoined , making a quicker motion towards the door .
' I did n't intend to -- I 'm going , my dear !
You are so very violent , that really I -- ' At this instant , Mrs. stepped hastily forward to replace the carpet , which had been kicked up in the scuffle .
immediately darted out of the room , without bestowing another thought on his unfinished sentence : leaving the late Mrs. Corney in full possession of the field .
was fairly taken by surprise , and fairly beaten .
He had a decided propensity for bullying : derived no inconsiderable pleasure from the exercise of petty cruelty ; and , consequently , was ( it is needless to say ) a coward .
This is by no means a disparagement to his character ; for many official personages , who are held in high respect and admiration , are the victims of similar infirmities .
The remark is made , indeed , rather in his favour than otherwise , and with a view of impressing the reader with a just sense of his qualifications for office .
But , the measure of his degradation was not yet full .
After making a tour of the house , and thinking , for the first time , that the poor-laws really were too hard on people ; and that men who ran away from their wives , leaving them chargeable to the parish , ought , in justice to be visited with no punishment at all , but rather rewarded as meritorious individuals who had suffered much ; came to a room where some of the female paupers were usually employed in washing the parish linen : when the sound of voices in conversation , now proceeded .
said , summoning up all his native dignity .
'These women at least shall continue to respect the prerogative .
What do you mean by this noise , you hussies ? '
With these words , opened the door , and walked in with a very fierce and angry manner : which was at once exchanged for a most humiliated and cowering air , as his eyes unexpectedly rested on the form of his lady wife .
'My dear , ' said , ' I did n't know you were here . '
'Did n't know I was here ! '
'What do _you_ do here ? '
' I thought they were talking rather too much to be doing their work properly , my dear , ' replied : glancing distractedly at a couple of old women at the wash-tub , who were comparing notes of admiration at the workhouse-master 's humility .
'_You_ thought they were talking too much ? '
'What business is it of yours ? '
'Why , my dear -- ' urged submissively .
'What business is it of yours ? '
'It 's very true , you 're matron here , my dear , ' submitted ; 'but I thought you might n't be in the way just then . '
' I 'll tell you what , , ' returned his lady .
'We do n't want any of your interference .
You 're a great deal too fond of poking your nose into things that do n't concern you , making everybody in the house laugh , the moment your back is turned , and making yourself look like a fool every hour in the day .
, seeing with excruciating feelings , the delight of the two old paupers , who were tittering together most rapturously , hesitated for an instant .
Mrs. Bumble , whose patience brooked no delay , caught up a bowl of soap-suds , and motioning him towards the door , ordered him instantly to depart , on pain of receiving the contents upon his portly person .
What could do ?
He looked dejectedly round , and slunk away ; and , as he reached the door , the titterings of the paupers broke into a shrill chuckle of irrepressible delight .
He was degraded in their eyes ; he had lost caste and station before the very paupers ; he had fallen from all the height and pomp of beadleship , to the lowest depth of the most snubbed hen-peckery .
said , filled with dismal thoughts .
No more than two months ago , I was not only my own master , but everybody else 's , so far as the porochial workhouse was concerned , and now ! -- ' It was too much .
boxed the ears of the boy who opened the gate for him ( for he had reached the portal in his reverie ) ; and walked , distractedly , into the street .
He walked up one street , and down another , until exercise had abated the first passion of his grief ; and then the revulsion of feeling made him thirsty .
He passed a great many public-houses ; but , at length paused before one in a by-way , whose parlour , as he gathered from a hasty peep over the blinds , was deserted , save by one solitary customer .
It began to rain , heavily , at the moment .
stepped in ; and ordering something to drink , as he passed the bar , entered the apartment into which he had looked from the street .
The man who was seated there , was tall and dark , and wore a large cloak .
He had the air of a stranger ; and seemed , by a certain haggardness in his look , as well as by the dusty soils on his dress , to have travelled some distance .
He eyed askance , as he entered , but scarcely deigned to nod his head in acknowledgment of his salutation .
had quite dignity enough for two ; supposing even that the stranger had been more familiar : so he drank his gin-and-water in silence , and read the paper with great show of pomp and circumstance .
It so happened , however : as it will happen very often , when men fall into company under such circumstances : that felt , every now and then , a powerful inducement , which he could not resist , to steal a look at the stranger : and that whenever he did so , he withdrew his eyes , in some confusion , to find that the stranger was at that moment stealing a look at him .
's awkwardness was enhanced by the very remarkable expression of the stranger 's eye , which was keen and bright , but shadowed by a scowl of distrust and suspicion , unlike anything he had ever observed before , and repulsive to behold .
When they had encountered each other 's glance several times in this way , the stranger , in a harsh , deep voice , broke silence .
'Were you looking for me , ' he said , 'when you peered in at the window ? '
'Not that I am aware of , unless you 're -- ' Here stopped short ; for he was curious to know the stranger 's name , and thought in his impatience , he might supply the blank .
' I see you were not , ' said the stranger ; an expression of quiet sarcasm playing about his mouth ; 'or you have known my name .
I would recommend you not to ask for it . '
' I meant no harm , young man , ' observed , majestically .
'And have done none , ' said the stranger .
Another silence succeeded this short dialogue : which was again broken by the stranger .
' I have seen you before , I think ? '
'You were differently dressed at that time , and I only passed you in the street , but I should know you again .
You were beadle here , once ; were you not ? '
' I was , ' said , in some surprise ; 'porochial beadle . '
'Just so , ' rejoined the other , nodding his head .
'It was in that character I saw you .
'Master of the workhouse , ' rejoined , slowly and impressively , to check any undue familiarity the stranger might otherwise assume .
'Master of the workhouse , young man ! '
'You have the same eye to your own interest , that you always had , I doubt not ? '
resumed the stranger , looking keenly into 's eyes , as he raised them in astonishment at the question .
'Do n't scruple to answer freely , man .
I know you pretty well , you see . '
' I suppose , a married man , ' replied , shading his eyes with his hand , and surveying the stranger , from head to foot , in evident perplexity , 'is not more averse to turning an honest penny when he can , than a single one .
officers are not so well paid that they can afford to refuse any little extra fee , when it comes to them in a civil and proper manner . '
The stranger smiled , and nodded his head again : as much to say , he had not mistaken his man ; then rang the bell .
'Fill this glass again , ' he said , handing 's empty tumbler to the landlord .
'Let it be strong and hot .
You like it so , I suppose ? '
'Not too strong , ' replied , with a delicate cough .
'You understand what that means , landlord ! '
The host smiled , disappeared , and shortly afterwards returned with a steaming jorum : of which , the first gulp brought the water into 's eyes .
'Now listen to me , ' said the stranger , after closing the door and window .
' I came down to this place , to-day , to find you out ; and , by one of those chances which the devil throws in the way of his friends sometimes , you walked into the very room I was sitting in , while you were uppermost in my mind .
I want some information from you .
I do n't ask you to give it for nothing , slight as it is .
Put up that , to begin with . '
As he spoke , he pushed a couple of sovereigns across the table to his companion , carefully , as though unwilling that the chinking of money should be heard without .
When had scrupulously examined the coins , to see that they were genuine , and had put them up , with much satisfaction , in his waistcoat-pocket , he went on : 'Carry your memory back -- let me see -- twelve years , last winter . '
'It 's a long time , ' said .
'And the place , the crazy hole , wherever it was , in which miserable drabs brought forth the life and health so often denied to themselves -- gave birth to puling children for the parish to rear ; and hid their shame , rot 'em in the grave ! '
'The lying-in room , I suppose ? '
said , not quite following the stranger 's excited description .
' A boy was born there . '
' A many boys , ' observed , shaking his head , despondingly .
' A murrain on the young devils ! '
cried the stranger ; ' I speak of one ; a meek-looking , pale-faced boy , who was apprenticed down here , to a coffin-maker -- I wish he had made his coffin , and screwed his body in it -- and who afterwards ran away to , as it was supposed .
said ; ' I remember him , of course .
There was n't a obstinater young rascal -- ' 'It 's not of him I want to hear ; I 've heard enough of him , ' said the stranger , stopping in the outset of a tirade on the subject of poor 's vices .
'It 's of a woman ; the hag that nursed his mother .
said , whom the gin-and-water had rendered facetious .
'It would be hard to tell .
There 's no midwifery there , whichever place she 's gone to ; so I suppose she 's out of employment , anyway . '
'That she died last winter , ' rejoined .
The man looked fixedly at him when he had given this information , and although he did not withdraw his eyes for some time afterwards , his gaze gradually became vacant and abstracted , and he seemed lost in thought .
For some time , he appeared doubtful whether he ought to be relieved or disappointed by the intelligence ; but at length he breathed more freely ; and withdrawing his eyes , observed that it was no great matter .
With that he rose , as if to depart .
But was cunning enough ; and he at once saw that an opportunity was opened , for the lucrative disposal of some secret in the possession of his better half .
He well remembered the night of old 's death , which the occurrences of that day had given him good reason to recollect , as the occasion on which he had proposed to Mrs. Corney ; and although that lady had never confided to him the disclosure of which she had been the solitary witness , he had heard enough to know that it related to something that had occurred in the old woman 's attendance , as workhouse nurse , upon the young mother of .
Hastily calling this circumstance to mind , he informed the stranger , with an air of mystery , that one woman had been closeted with the old harridan shortly before she died ; and that she could , as he had reason to believe , throw some light on the subject of his inquiry .
'How can I find her ? '
said the stranger , thrown off his guard ; and plainly showing that all his fears ( whatever they were ) were aroused afresh by the intelligence .
'Only through me , ' rejoined .
'At nine in the evening , ' said the stranger , producing a scrap of paper , and writing down upon it , an obscure address by the water-side , in characters that betrayed his agitation ; 'at nine in the evening , bring her to me there .
I need n't tell you to be secret .
With these words , he led the way to the door , after stopping to pay for the liquor that had been drunk .
Shortly remarking that their roads were different , he departed , without more ceremony than an emphatic repetition of the hour of appointment for the following night .
On glancing at the address , the parochial functionary observed that it contained no name .
The stranger had not gone far , so he made after him to ask it .
cried the man , turning quickly round , as touched him on the arm .
'Only to ask a question , ' said the other , pointing to the scrap of paper .
'What name am I to ask for ? '
rejoined the man ; and strode hastily , away .
It was a dull , close , overcast summer evening .
The clouds , which had been threatening all day , spread out in a dense and sluggish mass of vapour , already yielded large drops of rain , and seemed to presage a violent thunder-storm , when and Mrs. Bumble , turning out of the main street of the town , directed their course towards a scattered little colony of ruinous houses , distant from it some mile and a-half , or thereabouts , and erected on a low unwholesome swamp , bordering upon the river .
They were both wrapped in old and shabby outer garments , which might , perhaps , serve the double purpose of protecting their persons from the rain , and sheltering them from observation .
The husband carried a lantern , from which , however , no light yet shone ; and trudged on , a few paces in front , as though -- the way being dirty -- to give his wife the benefit of treading in his heavy footprints .
They went on , in profound silence ; every now and then , relaxed his pace , and turned his head as if to make sure that his helpmate was following ; then , discovering that she was close at his heels , he mended his rate of walking , and proceeded , at a considerable increase of speed , towards their place of destination .
This was far from being a place of doubtful character ; for it had long been known as the residence of none but low ruffians , who , under various pretences of living by their labour , subsisted chiefly on plunder and crime .
It was a collection of mere hovels : some , hastily built with loose bricks : others , of old worm-eaten ship-timber : jumbled together without any attempt at order or arrangement , and planted , for the most part , within a few feet of the river 's bank .
A few leaky boats drawn up on the mud , and made fast to the dwarf wall which skirted it : and here and there an oar or coil of rope : appeared , at first , to indicate that the inhabitants of these miserable cottages pursued some avocation on the river ; but a glance at the shattered and useless condition of the articles thus displayed , would have led a passer-by , without much difficulty , to the conjecture that they were disposed there , rather for the preservation of appearances , than with any view to their being actually employed .
In the heart of this cluster of huts ; and skirting the river , which its upper stories overhung ; stood a large building , formerly used as a manufactory of some kind .
It had , in its day , probably furnished employment to the inhabitants of the surrounding tenements .
But it had long since gone to ruin .
The rat , the worm , and the action of the damp , had weakened and rotted the piles on which it stood ; and a considerable portion of the building had already sunk down into the water ; while the remainder , tottering and bending over the dark stream , seemed to wait a favourable opportunity of following its old companion , and involving itself in the same fate .
It was before this ruinous building that the worthy couple paused , as the first peal of distant thunder reverberated in the air , and the rain commenced pouring violently down .
'The place should be somewhere here , ' said , consulting a scrap of paper he held in his hand .
cried a voice from above .
Following the sound , raised his head and descried a man looking out of a door , breast-high , on the second story .
'Stand still , a minute , ' cried the voice ; ' I 'll be with you directly . '
With which the head disappeared , and the door closed .
asked 's good lady .
nodded in the affirmative .
'Then , mind what I told you , ' said the matron : 'and be careful to say as little as you can , or you 'll betray us at once . '
, who had eyed the building with very rueful looks , was apparently about to express some doubts relative to the advisability of proceeding any further with the enterprise just then , when he was prevented by the appearance of Monks : who opened a small door , near which they stood , and beckoned them inwards .
he cried impatiently , stamping his foot upon the ground .
The woman , who had hesitated at first , walked boldly in , without any other invitation .
, who was ashamed or afraid to lag behind , followed : obviously very ill at ease and with scarcely any of that remarkable dignity which was usually his chief characteristic .
'What the devil made you stand lingering there , in the wet ? '
said , turning round , and addressing , after he had bolted the door behind them .
'We -- we were only cooling ourselves , ' stammered , looking apprehensively about him .
'Not all the rain that ever fell , or ever will fall , will put as much of hell 's fire out , as a man can carry about with him .
You wo n't cool yourself so easily ; do n't think it ! '
With this agreeable speech , turned short upon the matron , and bent his gaze upon her , till even she , who was not easily cowed , was fain to withdraw her eyes , and turn them towards the ground .
'This is the woman , is it ? '
That is the woman , ' replied , mindful of his wife 's caution .
'You think women never can keep secrets , I suppose ? '
said the matron , interposing , and returning , as she spoke , the searching look of .
' I know they will always keep _one_ till it 's found out , ' said .
'And what may that be ? '
'The loss of their own good name , ' replied .
'So , by the same rule , if a woman 's a party to a secret that might hang or transport her , I 'm not afraid of her telling it to anybody ; not I !
'No , ' rejoined the matron , slightly colouring as she spoke .
Bestowing something half-way between a smile and a frown upon his two companions , and again beckoning them to follow him , the man hastened across the apartment , which was of considerable extent , but low in the roof .
He was preparing to ascend a steep staircase , or rather ladder , leading to another floor of warehouses above : when a bright flash of lightning streamed down the aperture , and a peal of thunder followed , which shook the crazy building to its centre .
Rolling and crashing on as if it echoed through a thousand caverns where the devils were hiding from it .
He remained silent for a few moments ; and then , removing his hands suddenly from his face , showed , to the unspeakable discomposure of , that it was much distorted and discoloured .
'These fits come over me , now and then , ' said , observing his alarm ; 'and thunder sometimes brings them on .
Do n't mind me now ; it 's all over for this once . '
Thus speaking , he led the way up the ladder ; and hastily closing the window-shutter of the room into which it led , lowered a lantern which hung at the end of a rope and pulley passed through one of the heavy beams in the ceiling : and which cast a dim light upon an old table and three chairs that were placed beneath it .
'Now , ' said , when they had all three seated themselves , 'the sooner we come to our business , the better for all .
The woman know what it is , does she ? '
The question was addressed to ; but his wife anticipated the reply , by intimating that she was perfectly acquainted with it .
'He is right in saying that you were with this hag the night she died ; and that she told you something -- ' 'About the mother of the boy you named , ' replied the matron interrupting him .
'The first question is , of what nature was her communication ? '
'That 's the second , ' observed the woman with much deliberation .
'The first is , what may the communication be worth ? '
'Who the devil can tell that , without knowing of what kind it is ? '
'Nobody better than you , I am persuaded , ' answered Mrs. Bumble : who did not want for spirit , as her yoke-fellow could abundantly testify .
said significantly , and with a look of eager inquiry ; 'there may be money 's worth to get , eh ? '
'Perhaps there may , ' was the composed reply .
'Something that was taken from her , ' said .
Something that -- ' 'You had better bid , ' interrupted Mrs. Bumble .
' I have heard enough , already , to assure me that you are the man I ought to talk to . '
, who had not yet been admitted by his better half into any greater share of the secret than he had originally possessed , listened to this dialogue with outstretched neck and distended eyes : which he directed towards his wife and , by turns , in undisguised astonishment ; increased , if possible , when the latter sternly demanded , what sum was required for the disclosure .
'What 's it worth to you ? '
asked the woman , as collectedly as before .
'It may be nothing ; it may be twenty pounds , ' replied .
'Speak out , and let me know which . '
'Add five pounds to the sum you have named ; give me five-and-twenty pounds in gold , ' said the woman ; 'and I 'll tell you all I know .
' I spoke as plainly as I could , ' replied Mrs. Bumble .
'It 's not a large sum , either . '
'Not a large sum for a paltry secret , that may be nothing when it 's told ! '
cried Monks impatiently ; 'and which has been lying dead for twelve years past or more ! '
'Such matters keep well , and , like good wine , often double their value in course of time , ' answered the matron , still preserving the resolute indifference she had assumed .
'As to lying dead , there are those who will lie dead for twelve thousand years to come , or twelve million , for anything you or I know , who will tell strange tales at last ! '
'What if I pay it for nothing ? '
'You can easily take it away again , ' replied the matron .
' I am but a woman ; alone here ; and unprotected . '
'Not alone , my dear , nor unprotected , neither , ' submitted , in a voice tremulous with fear : '_I_ am here , my dear .
And besides , ' said , his teeth chattering as he spoke , 'Mr .
Monks is too much of a gentleman to attempt any violence on porochial persons .
is aware that I am not a young man , my dear , and also that I am a little run to seed , as I may say ; bu he has heerd : I say I have no doubt has heerd , my dear : that I am a very determined officer , with very uncommon strength , if I 'm once roused .
I only want a little rousing ; that 's all . '
As spoke , he made a melancholy feint of grasping his lantern with fierce determination ; and plainly showed , by the alarmed expression of every feature , that he _did_ want a little rousing , and not a little , prior to making any very warlike demonstration : unless , indeed , against paupers , or other person or persons trained down for the purpose .
'You are a fool , ' said Mrs. Bumble , in reply ; 'and had better hold your tongue . '
'He had better have cut it out , before he came , if he ca n't speak in a lower tone , ' said , grimly .
tittered the matron , parrying the question .
' I thought as much , when you came in , ' rejoined , marking the angry glance which the lady darted at her spouse as she spoke .
'So much the better ; I have less hesitation in dealing with two people , when I find that there 's only one will between them .
He thrust his hand into a side-pocket ; and producing a canvas bag , told out twenty-five sovereigns on the table , and pushed them over to the woman .
'Now , ' he said , 'gather them up ; and when this cursed peal of thunder , which I feel is coming up to break over the house-top , is gone , let 's hear your story . '
The thunder , which seemed in fact much nearer , and to shiver and break almost over their heads , having subsided , , raising his face from the table , bent forward to listen to what the woman should say .
The faces of the three nearly touched , as the two men leant over the small table in their eagerness to hear , and the woman also leant forward to render her whisper audible .
The sickly rays of the suspended lantern falling directly upon them , aggravated the paleness and anxiety of their countenances : which , encircled by the deepest gloom and darkness , looked ghastly in the extreme .
'When this woman , that we called old , died , ' the matron began , 'she and I were alone . '
'Was there no one by ? '
asked , in the same hollow whisper ; 'No sick wretch or idiot in some other bed ?
No one who could hear , and might , by possibility , understand ? '
'Not a soul , ' replied the woman ; 'we were alone .
stood alone beside the body when death came over it . '
'Good , ' said , regarding her attentively .
'She spoke of a young creature , ' resumed the matron , 'who had brought a child into the world some years before ; not merely in the same room , but in the same bed , in which she then lay dying . '
said , with quivering lip , and glancing over his shoulder , 'Blood !
'The child was the one you named to him last night , ' said the matron , nodding carelessly towards her husband ; 'the mother this nurse had robbed . '
'In death , ' replied the woman , with something like a shudder .
'She stole from the corpse , when it had hardly turned to one , that which the dead mother had prayed her , with her last breath , to keep for the infant 's sake . '
'She sold it , ' cried Monks , with desperate eagerness ; 'did she sell it ?
'As she told me , with great difficulty , that she had done this , ' said the matron , 'she fell back and died . '
cried Monks , in a voice which , from its very suppression , seemed only the more furious .
I 'll not be played with .
I 'll tear the life out of you both , but I 'll know what it was . '
'She did n't utter another word , ' said the woman , to all appearance unmoved ( as was very far from being ) by the strange man 's violence ; 'but she clutched my gown , violently , with one hand , which was partly closed ; and when I saw that she was dead , and so removed the hand by force , I found it clasped a scrap of dirty paper . '
'Which contained -- ' interposed Monks , stretching forward .
'Nothing , ' replied the woman ; 'it was a pawnbroker 's duplicate . '
'In good time I 'll tell you . '
' I judge that she had kept the trinket , for some time , in the hope of turning it to better account ; and then had pawned it ; and had saved or scraped together money to pay the pawnbroker 's interest year by year , and prevent its running out ; so that if anything came of it , it could still be redeemed .
had come of it ; and , as I tell you , she died with the scrap of paper , all worn and tattered , in her hand .
The time was out in two days ; I thought something might one day come of it too ; and so redeemed the pledge . '
And , as if glad to be relieved of it , she hastily threw upon the table a small kid bag scarcely large enough for a watch , which pouncing upon , tore open with trembling hands .
It contained a little gold locket : in which were two locks of hair , and a plain gold wedding-ring .
'It has the word `` '' engraved on the inside , ' said the woman .
'There is a blank left for the surname ; and then follows the date ; which is within a year before the child was born .
said , after a close and eager scrutiny of the contents of the little packet .
drew a long breath , as if he were glad to find that the story was over , and no mention made of taking the five-and-twenty pounds back again ; and now he took courage to wipe the perspiration which had been trickling over his nose , unchecked , during the whole of the previous dialogue .
' I know nothing of the story , beyond what I can guess at , ' said his wife addressing , after a short silence ; 'and I want to know nothing ; for it 's safer not .
But I may ask you two questions , may I ? '
'You may ask , ' said , with some show of surprise ; 'but whether I answer or not is another question . '
' -- makes three , ' observed , essaying a stroke of facetiousness .
'Is that what you expected to get from me ? '
'What do you propose to do with it ?
Can it be used against me ? '
'Never , ' rejoined ; 'nor against me either .
But do n't move a step forward , or your life is not worth a bulrush . '
With these words , he suddenly wheeled the table aside , and pulling an iron ring in the boarding , threw back a large trap-door which opened close at 's feet , and caused that gentleman to retire several paces backward , with great precipitation .
'Look down , ' said , lowering the lantern into the gulf .
I could have let you down , quietly enough , when you were seated over it , if that had been my game . '
Thus encouraged , the matron drew near to the brink ; and even himself , impelled by curiousity , ventured to do the same .
The turbid water , swollen by the heavy rain , was rushing rapidly on below ; and all other sounds were lost in the noise of its plashing and eddying against the green and slimy piles .
There had once been a water-mill beneath ; the tide foaming and chafing round the few rotten stakes , and fragments of machinery that yet remained , seemed to dart onward , with a new impulse , when freed from the obstacles which had unavailingly attempted to stem its headlong course .
'If you flung a man 's body down there , where would it be to-morrow morning ? '
said , swinging the lantern to and fro in the dark well .
'Twelve miles down the river , and cut to pieces besides , ' replied , recoiling at the thought .
drew the little packet from his breast , where he had hurriedly thrust it ; and tying it to a leaden weight , which had formed a part of some pulley , and was lying on the floor , dropped it into the stream .
It fell straight , and true as a die ; clove the water with a scarcely audible splash ; and was gone .
The three looking into each other 's faces , seemed to breathe more freely .
said , closing the trap-door , which fell heavily back into its former position .
'If the sea ever gives up its dead , as books say it will , it will keep its gold and silver to itself , and that trash among it .
We have nothing more to say , and may break up our pleasant party . '
'By all means , ' observed , with great alacrity .
'You 'll keep a quiet tongue in your head , will you ? '
said , with a threatening look .
' I am not afraid of your wife . '
'You may depend upon me , young man , ' answered , bowing himself gradually towards the ladder , with excessive politeness .
'On everybody 's account , young man ; on my own , you know , Mr .
' I am glad , for your sake , to hear it , ' remarked .
And get away from here as fast as you can . '
It was fortunate that the conversation terminated at this point , or , who had bowed himself to within six inches of the ladder , would infallibly have pitched headlong into the room below .
He lighted his lantern from that which had detached from the rope , and now carried in his hand ; and making no effort to prolong the discourse , descended in silence , followed by his wife .
brought up the rear , after pausing on the steps to satisfy himself that there were no other sounds to be heard than the beating of the rain without , and the rushing of the water .
They traversed the lower room , slowly , and with caution ; for started at every shadow ; and , holding his lantern a foot above the ground , walked not only with remarkable care , but with a marvellously light step for a gentleman of his figure : looking nervously about him for hidden trap-doors .
The gate at which they had entered , was softly unfastened and opened by ; merely exchanging a nod with their mysterious acquaintance , the married couple emerged into the wet and darkness outside .
They were no sooner gone , than Monks , who appeared to entertain an invincible repugnance to being left alone , called to a boy who had been hidden somewhere below .
Bidding him go first , and bear the light , he returned to the chamber he had just quitted .
On the evening following that upon which the three worthies mentioned in the last chapter , disposed of their little matter of business as therein narrated , , awakening from a nap , drowsily growled forth an inquiry what time of night it was .
The room in which propounded this question , was not one of those he had tenanted , previous to the expedition , although it was in the same quarter of the town , and was situated at no great distance from his former lodgings .
It was not , in appearance , so desirable a habitation as his old quarters : being a mean and badly-furnished apartment , of very limited size ; lighted only by one small window in the shelving roof , and abutting on a close and dirty lane .
Nor were there wanting other indications of the good gentleman 's having gone down in the world of late : for a great scarcity of furniture , and total absence of comfort , together with the disappearance of all such small moveables as spare clothes and linen , bespoke a state of extreme poverty ; while the meagre and attenuated condition of himself would have fully confirmed these symptoms , if they had stood in any need of corroboration .
The housebreaker was lying on the bed , wrapped in his white great-coat , by way of dressing-gown , and displaying a set of features in no degree improved by the cadaverous hue of illness , and the addition of a soiled nightcap , and a stiff , black beard of a week 's growth .
The dog sat at the bedside : now eyeing his master with a wistful look , and now pricking his ears , and uttering a low growl as some noise in the street , or in the lower part of the house , attracted his attention .
Seated by the window , busily engaged in patching an old waistcoat which formed a portion of the robber 's ordinary dress , was a female : so pale and reduced with watching and privation , that there would have been considerable difficulty in recognising her as the same Nancy who has already figured in this tale , but for the voice in which she replied to 's question .
'Not long gone seven , ' said the girl .
'How do you feel to-night , ? '
'As weak as water , ' replied , with an imprecation on his eyes and limbs .
'Here ; lend us a hand , and let me get off this thundering bed anyhow . '
had not improved 's temper ; for , as the girl raised him up and led him to a chair , he muttered various curses on her awkwardness , and struck her .
If you ca n't do anything better than that , cut off altogether .
' I hear you , ' replied the girl , turning her face aside , and forcing a laugh .
'What fancy have you got in your head now ? '
you 've thought better of it , have you ? '
growled , marking the tear which trembled in her eye .
'All the better for you , you have . '
'Why , you do n't mean to say , you 'd be hard upon me to-night , , ' said the girl , laying her hand upon his shoulder .
'Such a number of nights , ' said the girl , with a touch of woman 's tenderness , which communicated something like sweetness of tone , even to her voice : 'such a number of nights as I 've been patient with you , nursing and caring for you , as if you had been a child : and this the first that I 've seen you like yourself ; you would n't have served me as you did just now , if you 'd thought of that , would you ?
, come ; say you would n't . '
'Well , then , ' rejoined , ' I would n't .
Why , damme , now , the girls 's whining again ! '
'It 's nothing , ' said the girl , throwing herself into a chair .
'Do n't you seem to mind me .
demanded in a savage voice .
'What foolery are you up to , now , again ?
Get up and bustle about , and do n't come over me with your woman 's nonsense . '
At any other time , this remonstrance , and the tone in which it was delivered , would have had the desired effect ; but the girl being really weak and exhausted , dropped her head over the back of the chair , and fainted , before could get out a few of the appropriate oaths with which , on similar occasions , he was accustomed to garnish his threats .
Not knowing , very well , what to do , in this uncommon emergency ; for 's hysterics were usually of that violent kind which the patient fights and struggles out of , without much assistance ; tried a little blasphemy : and finding that mode of treatment wholly ineffectual , called for assistance .
'What 's the matter here , my dear ? '
'Lend a hand to the girl , ca n't you ? '
'Do n't stand chattering and grinning at me ! '
With an exclamation of surprise , hastened to the girl 's assistance , while ( otherwise the ) , who had followed his venerable friend into the room , hastily deposited on the floor a bundle with which he was laden ; and snatching a bottle from the grasp of who came close at his heels , uncorked it in a twinkling with his teeth , and poured a portion of its contents down the patient 's throat : previously taking a taste , himself , to prevent mistakes .
'Give her a whiff of fresh air with the bellows , , ' said ; 'and you slap her hands , , while undoes the petticuts . '
These united restoratives , administered with great energy : especially that department consigned to , who appeared to consider his share in the proceedings , a piece of unexampled pleasantry : were not long in producing the desired effect .
The girl gradually recovered her senses ; and , staggering to a chair by the bedside , hid her face upon the pillow : leaving to confront the new comers , in some astonishment at their unlooked-for appearance .
'Why , what evil wind has blowed you here ? '
'No evil wind at all , my dear , for evil winds blow nobody any good ; and I 've brought something good with me , that you 'll be glad to see .
, my dear , open the bundle ; and give the little trifles that we spent all our money on , this morning . '
In compliance with 's request , the untied this bundle , which was of large size , and formed of an old table-cloth ; and handed the articles it contained , one by one , to Bates : who placed them on the table , with various encomiums on their rarity and excellence .
'Sitch a rabbit pie , , ' exclaimed that young gentleman , disclosing to view a huge pasty ; 'sitch delicate creeturs , with sitch tender limbs , , that the wery bones melt in your mouth , and there 's no occasion to pick 'em ; half a pound of seven and six-penny green , so precious strong that if you mix it with biling water , it 'll go nigh to blow the lid of the tea-pot off ; a pound and a half of moist sugar that the niggers did n't work at all at , afore they got it up to sitch a pitch of goodness , -- oh no !
Two half-quartern brans ; pound of best fresh ; piece of double Glo'ster ; and , to wind up all , some of the richest sort you ever lushed ! '
Uttering this last panegyric , produced , from one of his extensive pockets , a full-sized wine-bottle , carefully corked ; while , at the same instant , poured out a wine-glassful of raw spirits from the bottle he carried : which the invalid tossed down his throat without a moment 's hesitation .
said , rubbing his hands with great satisfaction .
'You 'll do , ; you 'll do now . '
exclaimed ; ' I might have been done for , twenty times over , afore you 'd have done anything to help me .
What do you mean by leaving a man in this state , three weeks and more , you false-hearted wagabond ? '
said , shrugging his shoulders .
'And us come to bring him all these beau-ti-ful things . '
'The things is well enough in their way , ' observed : a little soothed as he glanced over the table ; 'but what have you got to say for yourself , why you should leave me here , down in the mouth , health , blunt , and everything else ; and take no more notice of me , all this mortal time , than if I was that 'ere dog. -- Drive him down , ! '
' I never see such a jolly dog as that , ' cried , doing as he was desired .
'Smelling the grub like a old lady a going to market !
He 'd make his fortun ' on the stage that dog would , and rewive the drayma besides . '
'Hold your din , ' cried , as the dog retreated under the bed : still growling angrily .
'What have you got to say for yourself , you withered old fence , eh ? '
' I was away from , a week and more , my dear , on a plant , ' replied the Jew .
'And what about the other fortnight ? '
'What about the other fortnight that you 've left me lying here , like a sick rat in his hole ? '
' I could n't help it , .
I ca n't go into a long explanation before company ; but I could n't help it , upon my honour . '
growled , with excessive disgust .
Cut me off a piece of that pie , one of you boys , to take the taste of that out of my mouth , or it 'll choke me dead . '
'Do n't be out of temper , my dear , ' urged , submissively .
' I have never forgot you , ; never once . '
I 'll pound it that you ha n't , ' replied , with a bitter grin .
'You 've been scheming and plotting away , every hour that I have laid shivering and burning here ; and was to do this ; and was to do that ; and was to do it all , dirt cheap , as soon as he got well : and was quite poor enough for your work .
If it had n't been for the girl , I might have died . '
'There now , , ' remonstrated , eagerly catching at the word .
'If it had n't been for the girl !
Who but poor ould was the means of your having such a handy girl about you ? '
'He says true enough there ! '
said , coming hastily forward .
'Let him be ; let him be . '
's appearance gave a new turn to the conversation ; for the boys , receiving a sly wink from the wary old Jew , began to ply her with liquor : of which , however , she took very sparingly ; while , assuming an unusual flow of spirits , gradually brought into a better temper , by affecting to regard his threats as a little pleasant banter ; and , moreover , by laughing very heartily at one or two rough jokes , which , after repeated applications to the spirit-bottle , he condescended to make .
'It 's all very well , ' said ; 'but I must have some blunt from you to-night . '
' I have n't a piece of coin about me , ' replied the Jew .
'Then you 've got lots at home , ' retorted ; 'and I must have some from there . '
cried Fagin , holding up is hands .
' I have n't so much as would -- ' ' I do n't know how much you 've got , and I dare say you hardly know yourself , as it would take a pretty long time to count it , ' said ; 'but I must have some to-night ; and that 's flat . '
'Well , well , ' said , with a sigh , ' I 'll send the round presently . '
'You wo n't do nothing of the kind , ' rejoined .
'The 's a deal too artful , and would forget to come , or lose his way , or get dodged by traps and so be perwented , or anything for an excuse , if you put him up to it .
shall go to the ken and fetch it , to make all sure ; and I 'll lie down and have a snooze while she 's gone . '
After a great deal of haggling and squabbling , beat down the amount of the required advance from five pounds to three pounds four and sixpence : protesting with many solemn asseverations that that would only leave him eighteen-pence to keep house with ; sullenly remarking that if he could n't get any more he must accompany him home ; with the and put the eatables in the cupboard .
The Jew then , taking leave of his affectionate friend , returned homeward , attended by and the boys : , meanwhile , flinging himself on the bed , and composing himself to sleep away the time until the young lady 's return .
In due course , they arrived at 's abode , where they found and intent upon their fifteenth game at cribbage , which it is scarcely necessary to say the latter gentleman lost , and with it , his fifteenth and last sixpence : much to the amusement of his young friends .
, apparently somewhat ashamed at being found relaxing himself with a gentleman so much his inferior in station and mental endowments , yawned , and inquiring after , took up his hat to go .
'Not a living leg , ' answered , pulling up his collar ; 'it 's been as dull as swipes .
You ought to stand something handsome , , to recompense me for keeping house so long .
, I 'm as flat as a juryman ; and should have gone to sleep , as fast as , if I had n't had the good natur ' to amuse this youngster .
dull , I 'm blessed if I a n't ! '
With these and other ejaculations of the same kind , swept up his winnings , and crammed them into his waistcoat pocket with a haughty air , as though such small pieces of silver were wholly beneath the consideration of a man of his figure ; this done , he swaggered out of the room , with so much elegance and gentility , that , bestowing numerous admiring glances on his legs and boots till they were out of sight , assured the company that he considered his acquaintance cheap at fifteen sixpences an interview , and that he did n't value his losses the snap of his little finger .
'Wot a rum chap you are , ! '
said , highly amused by this declaration .
'Not a bit of it , ' replied .
' A very clever fellow , my dear , ' said , patting him on the shoulder , and winking to his other pupils .
'And is a heavy swell ; a n't he , ? '
'No doubt at all of that , my dear . '
'And it is a creditable thing to have his acquaintance ; a n't it , ? '
'Very much so , indeed , my dear .
They 're only jealous , , because he wo n't give it to them . '
cried , triumphantly , 'that 's where it is !
He has cleaned me out .
But I can go and earn some more , when I like ; ca n't I , ? '
'To be sure you can , and the sooner you go the better , ; so make up your loss at once , and do n't lose any more time .
It 's time you were on the lay .
It 's near ten , and nothing done yet . '
In obedience to this hint , the boys , nodding to , took up their hats , and left the room ; the and his vivacious friend indulging , as they went , in many witticisms at the expense of ; in whose conduct , it is but justice to say , there was nothing very conspicuous or peculiar : inasmuch as there are a great number of spirited young bloods upon town , who pay a much higher price than for being seen in good society : and a great number of fine gentlemen ( composing the good society aforesaid ) who established their reputation upon very much the same footing as flash .
'Now , ' said , when they had left the room , ' I 'll go and get you that cash , .
This is only the key of a little cupboard where I keep a few odd things the boys get , my dear .
I never lock up my money , for I 've got none to lock up , my dear -- ha !
It 's a poor trade , , and no thanks ; but I 'm fond of seeing the young people about me ; and I bear it all , I bear it all .
he said , hastily concealing the key in his breast ; 'who 's that ?
The girl , who was sitting at the table with her arms folded , appeared in no way interested in the arrival : or to care whether the person , whoever he was , came or went : until the murmur of a man 's voice reached her ears .
The instant she caught the sound , she tore off her bonnet and shawl , with the rapidity of lightning , and thrust them under the table .
The Jew , turning round immediately afterwards , she muttered a complaint of the heat : in a tone of languor that contrasted , very remarkably , with the extreme haste and violence of this action : which , however , had been unobserved by , who had his back towards her at the time .
he whispered , as though nettled by the interruption ; 'it 's the man I expected before ; he 's coming downstairs .
Not a word about the money while he 's here , .
Not ten minutes , my dear . '
Laying his skinny forefinger upon his lip , the Jew carried a candle to the door , as a man 's step was heard upon the stairs without .
He reached it , at the same moment as the visitor , who , coming hastily into the room , was close upon the girl before he observed her .
'Only one of my young people , ' said , observing that drew back , on beholding a stranger .
The girl drew closer to the table , and glancing at with an air of careless levity , withdrew her eyes ; but as he turned towards , she stole another look ; so keen and searching , and full of purpose , that if there had been any bystander to observe the change , he could hardly have believed the two looks to have proceeded from the same person .
asked , hesitating as though he feared to vex the other man by being too sanguine .
'Not bad , any way , ' replied with a smile .
' I have been prompt enough this time .
Let me have a word with you . '
The girl drew closer to the table , and made no offer to leave the room , although she could see that was pointing to her .
The Jew : perhaps fearing she might say something aloud about the money , if he endeavoured to get rid of her : pointed upward , and took out of the room .
'Not that infernal hole we were in before , ' she could hear the man say as they went upstairs .
laughed ; and making some reply which did not reach her , seemed , by the creaking of the boards , to lead his companion to the second story .
Before the sound of their footsteps had ceased to echo through the house , the girl had slipped off her shoes ; and drawing her gown loosely over her head , and muffling her arms in it , stood at the door , listening with breathless interest .
The moment the noise ceased , she glided from the room ; ascended the stairs with incredible softness and silence ; and was lost in the gloom above .
The room remained deserted for a quarter of an hour or more ; the girl glided back with the same unearthly tread ; and , immediately afterwards , the two men were heard descending .
went at once into the street ; and the Jew crawled upstairs again for the money .
When he returned , the girl was adjusting her shawl and bonnet , as if preparing to be gone .
exclaimed the Jew , starting back as he put down the candle , 'how pale you are ! '
echoed the girl , shading her eyes with her hands , as if to look steadily at him .
What have you been doing to yourself ? '
'Nothing that I know of , except sitting in this close place for I do n't know how long and all , ' replied the girl carelessly .
Let me get back ; that 's a dear . '
With a sigh for every piece of money , told the amount into her hand .
They parted without more conversation , merely interchanging a 'good-night . '
When the girl got into the open street , she sat down upon a doorstep ; and seemed , for a few moments , wholly bewildered and unable to pursue her way .
Suddenly she arose ; and hurrying on , in a direction quite opposite to that in which was awaiting her returned , quickened her pace , until it gradually resolved into a violent run .
After completely exhausting herself , she stopped to take breath : and , as if suddenly recollecting herself , and deploring her inability to do something she was bent upon , wrung her hands , and burst into tears .
It might be that her tears relieved her , or that she felt the full hopelessness of her condition ; but she turned back ; and hurrying with nearly as great rapidity in the contrary direction ; partly to recover lost time , and partly to keep pace with the violent current of her own thoughts : soon reached the dwelling where she had left the housebreaker .
If she betrayed any agitation , when she presented herself to , he did not observe it ; for merely inquiring if she had brought the money , and receiving a reply in the affirmative , he uttered a growl of satisfaction , and replacing his head upon the pillow , resumed the slumbers which her arrival had interrupted .
It was fortunate for her that the possession of money occasioned him so much employment next day in the way of eating and drinking ; and withal had so beneficial an effect in smoothing down the asperities of his temper ; that he had neither time nor inclination to be very critical upon her behaviour and deportment .
That she had all the abstracted and nervous manner of one who is on the eve of some bold and hazardous step , which it has required no common struggle to resolve upon , would have been obvious to the lynx-eyed Fagin , who would most probably have taken the alarm at once ; but lacking the niceties of discrimination , and being troubled with no more subtle misgivings than those which resolve themselves into a dogged roughness of behaviour towards everybody ; and being , furthermore , in an unusually amiable condition , as has been already observed ; saw nothing unusual in her demeanor , and indeed , troubled himself so little about her , that , had her agitation been far more perceptible than it was , it would have been very unlikely to have awakened his suspicions .
As that day closed in , the girl 's excitement increased ; and , when night came on , and she sat by , watching until the housebreaker should drink himself asleep , there was an unusual paleness in her cheek , and a fire in her eye , that even Sikes observed with astonishment .
Sikes being weak from the fever , was lying in bed , taking hot water with his gin to render it less inflammatory ; and had pushed his glass towards to be replenished for the third or fourth time , when these symptoms first struck him .
said the man , raising himself on his hands as he stared the girl in the face .
'You look like a corpse come to life again .
What do you look at me so hard for ? '
demanded , grasping her by the arm , and shaking her roughly .
What are you thinking of ? '
'Of many things , , ' replied the girl , shivering , and as she did so , pressing her hands upon her eyes .
The tone of forced gaiety in which the last words were spoken , seemed to produce a deeper impression on Sikes than the wild and rigid look which had preceded them .
' I tell you wot it is , ' said ; 'if you have n't caught the fever , and got it comin ' on , now , there 's something more than usual in the wind , and something dangerous too .
'There ai n't , ' said , fixing his eyes upon her , and muttering the words to himself ; 'there ai n't a stauncher-hearted gal going , or I 'd have cut her throat three months ago .
She 's got the fever coming on ; that 's it . '
Fortifying himself with this assurance , drained the glass to the bottom , and then , with many grumbling oaths , called for his physic .
The girl jumped up , with great alacrity ; poured it quickly out , but with her back towards him ; and held the vessel to his lips , while he drank off the contents .
'Now , ' said the robber , 'come and sit aside of me , and put on your own face ; or I 'll alter it so , that you wo n't know it agin when you do want it . '
, locking her hand in his , fell back upon the pillow : turning his eyes upon her face .
They closed ; opened again ; closed once more ; again opened .
He shifted his position restlessly ; and , after dozing again , and again , for two or three minutes , and as often springing up with a look of terror , and gazing vacantly about him , was suddenly stricken , as it were , while in the very attitude of rising , into a deep and heavy sleep .
The grasp of his hand relaxed ; the upraised arm fell languidly by his side ; and he lay like one in a profound trance .
'The laudanum has taken effect at last , ' murmured the girl , as she rose from the bedside .
' I may be too late , even now . '
She hastily dressed herself in her bonnet and shawl : looking fearfully round , from time to time , as if , despite the sleeping draught , she expected every moment to feel the pressure of 's heavy hand upon her shoulder ; then , stooping softly over the bed , she kissed the robber 's lips ; and then opening and closing the room-door with noiseless touch , hurried from the house .
A watchman was crying half-past nine , down a dark passage through which she had to pass , in gaining the main thoroughfare .
'Has it long gone the half-hour ? '
'It 'll strike the hour in another quarter , ' said the man : raising his lantern to her face .
'And I can not get there in less than an hour or more , ' muttered Nancy : brushing swiftly past him , and gliding rapidly down the street .
Many of the shops were already closing in the back lanes and avenues through which she tracked her way , in making from towards the West-End of .
The clock struck ten , increasing her impatience .
She tore along the narrow pavement : elbowing the passengers from side to side ; and darting almost under the horses ' heads , crossed crowded streets , where clusters of persons were eagerly watching their opportunity to do the like .
said the people , turning to look after her as she rushed away .
When she reached the more wealthy quarter of the town , the streets were comparatively deserted ; and here her headlong progress excited a still greater curiosity in the stragglers whom she hurried past .
Some quickened their pace behind , as though to see whither she was hastening at such an unusual rate ; and a few made head upon her , and looked back , surprised at her undiminished speed ; but they fell off one by one ; and when she neared her place of destination , she was alone .
It was a family hotel in a quiet but handsome street near .
As the brilliant light of the lamp which burnt before its door , guided her to the spot , the clock struck eleven .
She had loitered for a few paces as though irresolute , and making up her mind to advance ; but the sound determined her , and she stepped into the hall .
The porter 's seat was vacant .
She looked round with an air of incertitude , and advanced towards the stairs .
said a smartly-dressed female , looking out from a door behind her , 'who do you want here ? '
' A lady who is stopping in this house , ' answered the girl .
was the reply , accompanied with a scornful look .
The young woman , who had by this time , noted her appearance , replied only by a look of virtuous disdain ; and summoned a man to answer her .
To him , repeated her request .
'What name am I to say ? '
'It 's of no use saying any , ' replied .
'No , nor that neither , ' rejoined the girl .
' I must see the lady . '
said the man , pushing her towards the door .
' I shall be carried out if I go ! '
said the girl violently ; 'and I can make that a job that two of you wo n't like to do .
Is n't there anybody here , ' she said , looking round , 'that will see a simple message carried for a poor wretch like me ? '
This appeal produced an effect on a good-tempered-faced man-cook , who with some of the other servants was looking on , and who stepped forward to interfere .
'Take it up for her , ; ca n't you ? '
'You do n't suppose the young lady will see such as her ; do you ? '
This allusion to 's doubtful character , raised a vast quantity of chaste wrath in the bosoms of four housemaids , who remarked , with great fervour , that the creature was a disgrace to her sex ; and strongly advocated her being thrown , ruthlessly , into the kennel .
'Do what you like with me , ' said the girl , turning to the men again ; 'but do what I ask you first , and I ask you to give this message for 's sake . '
The soft-hearted cook added his intercession , and the result was that the man who had first appeared undertook its delivery .
said the man , with one foot on the stairs .
'That a young woman earnestly asks to speak to alone , ' said ; 'and that if the lady will only hear the first word she has to say , she will know whether to hear her business , or to have her turned out of doors as an impostor . '
' I say , ' said the man , 'you 're coming it strong ! '
'You give the message , ' said the girl firmly ; 'and let me hear the answer . '
remained , pale and almost breathless , listening with quivering lip to the very audible expressions of scorn , of which the chaste housemaids were very prolific ; and of which they became still more so , when the man returned , and said the young woman was to walk upstairs .
'It 's no good being proper in this world , ' said the first housemaid .
'Brass can do better than the gold what has stood the fire , ' said the second .
The third contented herself with wondering 'what ladies was made of ' ; and the fourth took the first in a quartette of 'Shameful ! '
with which the concluded .
Regardless of all this : for she had weightier matters at heart : followed the man , with trembling limbs , to a small ante-chamber , lighted by a lamp from the ceiling .
Here he left her , and retired .
The girl 's life had been squandered in the streets , and among the most noisome of the stews and dens of , but there was something of the woman 's original nature left in her still ; and when she heard a light step approaching the door opposite to that by which she had entered , and thought of the wide contrast which the small room would in another moment contain , she felt burdened with the sense of her own deep shame , and shrunk as though she could scarcely bear the presence of her with whom she had sought this interview .
But struggling with these better feelings was pride , -- the vice of the lowest and most debased creatures no less than of the high and self-assured .
The miserable companion of thieves and ruffians , the fallen outcast of low haunts , the associate of the scourings of the jails and hulks , living within the shadow of the gallows itself , -- even this degraded being felt too proud to betray a feeble gleam of the womanly feeling which she thought a weakness , but which alone connected her with that humanity , of which her wasting life had obliterated so many , many traces when a very child .
She raised her eyes sufficiently to observe that the figure which presented itself was that of a slight and beautiful girl ; then , bending them on the ground , she tossed her head with affected carelessness as she said : 'It 's a hard matter to get to see you , lady .
If I had taken offence , and gone away , as many would have done , you 'd have been sorry for it one day , and not without reason either . '
' I am very sorry if any one has behaved harshly to you , ' replied .
'Do not think of that .
Tell me why you wished to see me .
I am the person you inquired for . '
The kind tone of this answer , the sweet voice , the gentle manner , the absence of any accent of haughtiness or displeasure , took the girl completely by surprise , and she burst into tears .
she said , clasping her hands passionately before her face , 'if there was more like you , there would be fewer like me , -- there would -- there would ! '
'Sit down , ' said , earnestly .
'If you are in poverty or affliction I shall be truly glad to relieve you if I can , -- I shall indeed .
'Let me stand , lady , ' said the girl , still weeping , 'and do not speak to me so kindly till you know me better .
'Yes , ' said , recoiling a few steps , as if to be nearer assistance in case she should require it .
'Because , ' said the girl , ' I am about to put my life and the lives of others in your hands .
I am the girl that dragged little Oliver back to old 's on the night he went out from the house in . '
' I am the infamous creature you have heard of , that lives among the thieves , and that never from the first moment I can recollect my eyes and senses opening on streets have known any better life , or kinder words than they have given me , so help me God !
Do not mind shrinking openly from me , lady .
I am younger than you would think , to look at me , but I am well used to it .
The poorest women fall back , as I make my way along the crowded pavement . '
'What dreadful things are these ! '
said , involuntarily falling from her strange companion .
'Thank Heaven upon your knees , dear lady , ' cried the girl , 'that you had friends to care for and keep you in your childhood , and that you were never in the midst of cold and hunger , and riot and drunkenness , and -- and -- something worse than all -- as I have been from my cradle .
I may use the word , for the alley and the gutter were mine , as they will be my deathbed . '
said , in a broken voice .
'It wrings my heart to hear you ! '
'Heaven bless you for your goodness ! '
'If you knew what I am sometimes , you would pity me , indeed .
But I have stolen away from those who would surely murder me , if they knew I had been here , to tell you what I have overheard .
Do you know a man named ? '
'He knows you , ' replied the girl ; 'and knew you were here , for it was by hearing him tell the place that I found you out . '
' I never heard the name , ' said .
'Then he goes by some other amongst us , ' rejoined the girl , 'which I more than thought before .
Some time ago , and soon after was put into your house on the night of the robbery , I -- suspecting this man -- listened to a conversation held between him and in the dark .
I found out , from what I heard , that -- the man I asked you about , you know -- ' 'Yes , ' said , ' I understand . '
' -- That , ' pursued the girl , 'had seen him accidently with two of our boys on the day we first lost him , and had known him directly to be the same child that he was watching for , though I could n't make out why .
A bargain was struck with , that if was got back he should have a certain sum ; and he was to have more for making him a thief , which this wanted for some purpose of his own . '
'He caught sight of my shadow on the wall as I listened , in the hope of finding out , ' said the girl ; 'and there are not many people besides me that could have got out of their way in time to escape discovery .
But I did ; and I saw him no more till last night . '
Last night he came again .
Again they went upstairs , and I , wrapping myself up so that my shadow would not betray me , again listened at the door .
The first words I heard Monks say were these : `` So the only proofs of the boy 's identity lie at the bottom of the river , and the old hag that received them from the mother is rotting in her coffin . ''
They laughed , and talked of his success in doing this ; and , talking on about the boy , and getting very wild , said that though he had got the young devil 's money safely now , he 'd rather have had it the other way ; for , what a game it would have been to have brought down the boast of the father 's will , by driving him through every jail in town , and then hauling him up for some capital felony which could easily manage , after having made a good profit of him besides . '
'The truth , lady , though it comes from my lips , ' replied the girl .
'Then , he said , with oaths common enough in my ears , but strange to yours , that if he could gratify his hatred by taking the boy 's life without bringing his own neck in danger , he would ; but , as he could n't , he 'd be upon the watch to meet him at every turn in life ; and if he took advantage of his birth and history , he might harm him yet .
`` In short , , '' he says , `` Jew as you are , you never laid such snares as I 'll contrive for my young brother , . '' '
'Those were his words , ' said , glancing uneasily round , as she had scarcely ceased to do , since she began to speak , for a vision of haunted her perpetually .
When he spoke of you and the other lady , and said it seemed contrived by , or the devil , against him , that should come into your hands , he laughed , and said there was some comfort in that too , for how many thousands and hundreds of thousands of pounds would you not give , if you had them , to know who your two-legged spaniel was . '
'You do not mean , ' said , turning very pale , 'to tell me that this was said in earnest ? '
'He spoke in hard and angry earnest , if a man ever did , ' replied the girl , shaking her head .
'He is an earnest man when his hatred is up .
I know many who do worse things ; but I 'd rather listen to them all a dozen times , than to that once .
It is growing late , and I have to reach home without suspicion of having been on such an errand as this .
I must get back quickly . '
'But what can I do ? '
'To what use can I turn this communication without you ?
Why do you wish to return to companions you paint in such terrible colors ?
If you repeat this information to a gentleman whom I can summon in an instant from the next room , you can be consigned to some place of safety without half an hour 's delay . '
' I wish to go back , ' said the girl .
' I must go back , because -- how can I tell such things to an innocent lady like you ? -- because among the men I have told you of , there is one : the most desperate among them all ; that I ca n't leave : no , not even to be saved from the life I am leading now . '
'Your having interfered in this dear boy 's behalf before , ' said ; 'your coming here , at so great a risk , to tell me what you have heard ; your manner , which convinces me of the truth of what you say ; your evident contrition , and sense of shame ; all lead me to believe that you might yet be reclaimed .
said the earnest girl , folding her hands as the tears coursed down her face , 'do not turn a deaf ear to the entreaties of one of your own sex ; the first -- the first , I do believe , who ever appealed to you in the voice of pity and compassion .
Do hear my words , and let me save you yet , for better things . '
'Lady , ' cried the girl , sinking on her knees , 'dear , sweet , angel lady , you _are_ the first that ever blessed me with such words as these , and if I had heard them years ago , they might have turned me from a life of sin and sorrow ; but it is too late , it is too late ! '
'It is never too late , ' said , 'for penitence and atonement . '
'It is , ' cried the girl , writhing in agony of her mind ; ' I can not leave him now !
I could not be his death . '
'Nothing could save him , ' cried the girl .
'If I told others what I have told you , and led to their being taken , he would be sure to die .
He is the boldest , and has been so cruel ! '
'Is it possible , ' cried , 'that for such a man as this , you can resign every future hope , and the certainty of immediate rescue ?
' I do n't know what it is , ' answered the girl ; ' I only know that it is so , and not with me alone , but with hundreds of others as bad and wretched as myself .
Whether it is 's wrath for the wrong I have done , I do not know ; but I am drawn back to him through every suffering and ill usage ; and I should be , I believe , if I knew that I was to die by his hand at last . '
'What am I to do ? '
' I should not let you depart from me thus . '
'You should , lady , and I know you will , ' rejoined the girl , rising .
'You will not stop my going because I have trusted in your goodness , and forced no promise from you , as I might have done . '
'Of what use , then , is the communication you have made ? '
'This mystery must be investigated , or how will its disclosure to me , benefit , whom you are anxious to serve ? '
'You must have some kind gentleman about you that will hear it as a secret , and advise you what to do , ' rejoined the girl .
'But where can I find you again when it is necessary ? '
' I do not seek to know where these dreadful people live , but where will you be walking or passing at any settled period from this time ? '
'Will you promise me that you will have my secret strictly kept , and come alone , or with the only other person that knows it ; and that I shall not be watched or followed ? '
' I promise you solemnly , ' answered .
'Every Sunday night , from eleven until the clock strikes twelve , ' said the girl without hesitation , ' I will walk on Bridge if I am alive . '
'Stay another moment , ' interposed , as the girl moved hurriedly towards the door .
'Think once again on your own condition , and the opportunity you have of escaping from it .
You have a claim on me : not only as the voluntary bearer of this intelligence , but as a woman lost almost beyond redemption .
Will you return to this gang of robbers , and to this man , when a word can save you ?
What fascination is it that can take you back , and make you cling to wickedness and misery ?
is there no chord in your heart that I can touch !
Is there nothing left , to which I can appeal against this terrible infatuation ! '
'When ladies as young , and good , and beautiful as you are , ' replied the girl steadily , 'give away your hearts , love will carry you all lengths -- even such as you , who have home , friends , other admirers , everything , to fill them .
When such as I , who have no certain roof but the coffinlid , and no friend in sickness or death but the hospital nurse , set our rotten hearts on any man , and let him fill the place that has been a blank through all our wretched lives , who can hope to cure us ?
Pity us , lady -- pity us for having only one feeling of the woman left , and for having that turned , by a heavy judgment , from a comfort and a pride , into a new means of violence and suffering . '
'You will , ' said , after a pause , 'take some money from me , which may enable you to live without dishonesty -- at all events until we meet again ? '
'Not a penny , ' replied the girl , waving her hand .
'Do not close your heart against all my efforts to help you , ' said , stepping gently forward .
' I wish to serve you indeed . '
'You would serve me best , lady , ' replied the girl , wringing her hands , 'if you could take my life at once ; for I have felt more grief to think of what I am , to-night , than I ever did before , and it would be something not to die in the hell in which I have lived .
God bless you , sweet lady , and send as much happiness on your head as I have brought shame on mine ! '
Thus speaking , and sobbing aloud , the unhappy creature turned away ; while , overpowered by this extraordinary interview , which had more the semblance of a rapid dream than an actual occurrence , sank into a chair , and endeavoured to collect her wandering thoughts .
Her situation was , indeed , one of no common trial and difficulty .
While she felt the most eager and burning desire to penetrate the mystery in which 's history was enveloped , she could not but hold sacred the confidence which the miserable woman with whom she had just conversed , had reposed in her , as a young and guileless girl .
Her words and manner had touched 's heart ; and , mingled with her love for her young charge , and scarcely less intense in its truth and fervour , was her fond wish to win the outcast back to repentance and hope .
They purposed remaining in only three days , prior to departing for some weeks to a distant part of the coast .
It was now midnight of the first day .
What course of action could she determine upon , which could be adopted in eight-and-forty hours ?
Or how could she postpone the journey without exciting suspicion ?
was with them , and would be for the next two days ; but was too well acquainted with the excellent gentleman 's impetuosity , and foresaw too clearly the wrath with which , in the first explosion of his indignation , he would regard the instrument of 's recapture , to trust him with the secret , when her representations in the girl 's behalf could be seconded by no experienced person .
These were all reasons for the greatest caution and most circumspect behaviour in communicating it to Mrs. Maylie , whose first impulse would infallibly be to hold a conference with the worthy doctor on the subject .
As to resorting to any legal adviser , even if she had known how to do so , it was scarcely to be thought of , for the same reason .
Once the thought occurred to her of seeking assistance from ; but this awakened the recollection of their last parting , and it seemed unworthy of her to call him back , when -- the tears rose to her eyes as she pursued this train of reflection -- he might have by this time learnt to forget her , and to be happier away .
Disturbed by these different reflections ; inclining now to one course and then to another , and again recoiling from all , as each successive consideration presented itself to her mind ; passed a sleepless and anxious night .
After more communing with herself next day , she arrived at the desperate conclusion of consulting .
'If it be painful to him , ' she thought , 'to come back here , how painful it will be to me !
But perhaps he will not come ; he may write , or he may come himself , and studiously abstain from meeting me -- he did when he went away .
I hardly thought he would ; but it was better for us both . '
And here dropped the pen , and turned away , as though the very paper which was to be her messenger should not see her weep .
She had taken up the same pen , and laid it down again fifty times , and had considered and reconsidered the first line of her letter without writing the first word , when , who had been walking in the streets , with for a body-guard , entered the room in such breathless haste and violent agitation , as seemed to betoken some new cause of alarm .
'What makes you look so flurried ? '
asked , advancing to meet him .
' I hardly know how ; I feel as if I should be choked , ' replied the boy .
To think that I should see him at last , and you should be able to know that I have told you the truth ! '
' I never thought you had told us anything but the truth , ' said , soothing him .
'But what is this ? -- of whom do you speak ? '
' I have seen the gentleman , ' replied , scarcely able to articulate , 'the gentleman who was so good to me -- , that we have so often talked about . '
'Getting out of a coach , ' replied , shedding tears of delight , 'and going into a house .
I did n't speak to him -- I could n't speak to him , for he did n't see me , and I trembled so , that I was not able to go up to him .
But asked , for me , whether he lived there , and they said he did .
here , ' said , opening a scrap of paper , 'here it is ; here 's where he lives -- I 'm going there directly !
Oh , dear me , dear me !
What shall I do when I come to see him and hear him speak again ! '
With her attention not a little distracted by these and a great many other incoherent exclamations of joy , read the address , which was , in the .
She very soon determined upon turning the discovery to account .
'Tell them to fetch a hackney-coach , and be ready to go with me .
I will take you there directly , without a minute 's loss of time .
I will only tell my aunt that we are going out for an hour , and be ready as soon as you are . '
needed no prompting to despatch , and in little more than five minutes they were on their way to .
When they arrived there , left in the coach , under pretence of preparing the old gentleman to receive him ; and sending up her card by the servant , requested to see on very pressing business .
The servant soon returned , to beg that she would walk upstairs ; and following him into an upper room , was presented to an elderly gentleman of benevolent appearance , in a bottle-green coat .
At no great distance from whom , was seated another old gentleman , in nankeen breeches and gaiters ; who did not look particularly benevolent , and who was sitting with his hands clasped on the top of a thick stick , and his chin propped thereupon .
'Dear me , ' said the gentleman , in the bottle-green coat , hastily rising with great politeness , ' I beg your pardon , young lady -- I imagined it was some importunate person who -- I beg you will excuse me .
said , glancing from the other gentleman to the one who had spoken .
'That is my name , ' said the old gentleman .
'This is my friend , .
, will you leave us for a few minutes ? '
' I believe , ' interposed , 'that at this period of our interview , I need not give that gentleman the trouble of going away .
If I am correctly informed , he is cognizant of the business on which I wish to speak to you . '
inclined his head .
, who had made one very stiff bow , and risen from his chair , made another very stiff bow , and dropped into it again .
' I shall surprise you very much , I have no doubt , ' said , naturally embarrassed ; 'but you once showed great benevolence and goodness to a very dear young friend of mine , and I am sure you will take an interest in hearing of him again . '
'Oliver Twist you knew him as , ' replied .
The words no sooner escaped her lips , than , who had been affecting to dip into a large book that lay on the table , upset it with a great crash , and falling back in his chair , discharged from his features every expression but one of unmitigated wonder , and indulged in a prolonged and vacant stare ; then , as if ashamed of having betrayed so much emotion , he jerked himself , as it were , by a convulsion into his former attitude , and looking out straight before him emitted a long deep whistle , which seemed , at last , not to be discharged on empty air , but to die away in the innermost recesses of his stomach .
was no less surprised , although his astonishment was not expressed in the same eccentric manner .
He drew his chair nearer to 's , and said , 'Do me the favour , my dear young lady , to leave entirely out of the question that goodness and benevolence of which you speak , and of which nobody else knows anything ; and if you have it in your power to produce any evidence which will alter the unfavourable opinion I was once induced to entertain of that poor child , in 's name put me in possession of it . '
I 'll eat my head if he is not a bad one , ' growled , speaking by some ventriloquial power , without moving a muscle of his face .
'He is a child of a noble nature and a warm heart , ' said , colouring ; 'and that which has thought fit to try him beyond his years , has planted in his breast affections and feelings which would do honour to many who have numbered his days six times over . '
' I 'm only sixty-one , ' said , with the same rigid face .
'And , as the devil 's in it if this Oliver is not twelve years old at least , I do n't see the application of that remark . '
'Do not heed my friend , , ' said ; 'he does not mean what he says . '
'Yes , he does , ' growled .
'No , he does not , ' said , obviously rising in wrath as he spoke .
'He 'll eat his head , if he does n't , ' growled .
'He would deserve to have it knocked off , if he does , ' said .
'And he 'd uncommonly like to see any man offer to do it , ' responded , knocking his stick upon the floor .
Having gone thus far , the two old gentlemen severally took snuff , and afterwards shook hands , according to their invariable custom .
'Now , , ' said , 'to return to the subject in which your humanity is so much interested .
Will you let me know what intelligence you have of this poor child : allowing me to promise that I exhausted every means in my power of discovering him , and that since I have been absent from this country , my first impression that he had imposed upon me , and had been persuaded by his former associates to rob me , has been considerably shaken . '
, who had had time to collect her thoughts , at once related , in a few natural words , all that had befallen since he left 's house ; reserving 's information for that gentleman 's private ear , and concluding with the assurance that his only sorrow , for some months past , had been not being able to meet with his former benefactor and friend .
'This is great happiness to me , great happiness .
But you have not told me where he is now , .
You must pardon my finding fault with you , -- but why not have brought him ? '
'He is waiting in a coach at the door , ' replied .
With which he hurried out of the room , down the stairs , up the coachsteps , and into the coach , without another word .
When the room-door closed behind him , lifted up his head , and converting one of the hind legs of his chair into a pivot , described three distinct circles with the assistance of his stick and the table ; sitting in it all the time .
After performing this evolution , he rose and limped as fast as he could up and down the room at least a dozen times , and then stopping suddenly before , kissed her without the slightest preface .
he said , as the young lady rose in some alarm at this unusual proceeding .
I 'm old enough to be your grandfather .
In fact , as he threw himself at one dexterous dive into his former seat , returned , accompanied by , whom received very graciously ; and if the gratification of that moment had been the only reward for all her anxiety and care in 's behalf , would have been well repaid .
'There is somebody else who should not be forgotten , by the bye , ' said , ringing the bell .
'Send Mrs. Bedwin here , if you please . '
The old housekeeper answered the summons with all dispatch ; and dropping a curtsey at the door , waited for orders .
'Why , you get blinder every day , , ' said , rather testily .
'Well , that I do , sir , ' replied the old lady .
'People 's eyes , at my time of life , do n't improve with age , sir . '
' I could have told you that , ' rejoined ; 'but put on your glasses , and see if you ca n't find out what you were wanted for , will you ? '
The old lady began to rummage in her pocket for her spectacles .
But 's patience was not proof against this new trial ; and yielding to his first impulse , he sprang into her arms .
'God be good to me ! '
cried the old lady , embracing him ; 'it is my innocent boy ! '
'He would come back -- I knew he would , ' said the old lady , holding him in her arms .
'How well he looks , and how like a gentleman 's son he is dressed again !
Where have you been , this long , long while ?
the same sweet face , but not so pale ; the same soft eye , but not so sad .
I have never forgotten them or his quiet smile , but have seen them every day , side by side with those of my own dear children , dead and gone since I was a lightsome young creature . '
Running on thus , and now holding Oliver from her to mark how he had grown , now clasping him to her and passing her fingers fondly through his hair , the good soul laughed and wept upon his neck by turns .
Leaving her and to compare notes at leisure , led the way into another room ; and there , heard from a full narration of her interview with , which occasioned him no little surprise and perplexity .
also explained her reasons for not confiding in her friend in the first instance .
The old gentleman considered that she had acted prudently , and readily undertook to hold solemn conference with the worthy doctor himself .
To afford him an early opportunity for the execution of this design , it was arranged that he should call at the hotel at eight o'clock that evening , and that in the meantime Mrs. Maylie should be cautiously informed of all that had occurred .
These preliminaries adjusted , and returned home .
had by no means overrated the measure of the good doctor 's wrath .
's history was no sooner unfolded to him , than he poured forth a shower of mingled threats and execrations ; threatened to make her the first victim of the combined ingenuity of Messrs. Blathers and ; and actually put on his hat preparatory to sallying forth to obtain the assistance of those worthies .
And , doubtless , he would , in this first outbreak , have carried the intention into effect without a moment 's consideration of the consequences , if he had not been restrained , in part , by corresponding violence on the side of , who was himself of an irascible temperament , and party by such arguments and representations as seemed best calculated to dissuade him from his hotbrained purpose .
'Then what the devil is to be done ? '
said the impetuous doctor , when they had rejoined the two ladies .
'Are we to pass a vote of thanks to all these vagabonds , male and female , and beg them to accept a hundred pounds , or so , apiece , as a trifling mark of our esteem , and some slight acknowledgment of their kindness to ? '
'Not exactly that , ' rejoined , laughing ; 'but we must proceed gently and with great care . '
'Gentleness and care , ' exclaimed the doctor .
' I 'd send them one and all to -- ' 'Never mind where , ' interposed .
'But reflect whether sending them anywhere is likely to attain the object we have in view . '
'Simply , the discovery of 's parentage , and regaining for him the inheritance of which , if this story be true , he has been fraudulently deprived . '
said , cooling himself with his pocket-handkerchief ; ' I almost forgot that . '
'You see , ' pursued ; 'placing this poor girl entirely out of the question , and supposing it were possible to bring these scoundrels to justice without compromising her safety , what good should we bring about ? '
'Hanging a few of them at least , in all probability , ' suggested the doctor , 'and transporting the rest . '
'Very good , ' replied , smiling ; 'but no doubt they will bring that about for themselves in the fulness of time , and if we step in to forestall them , it seems to me that we shall be performing a very act , in direct opposition to our own interest -- or at least to 's , which is the same thing . '
It is quite clear that we shall have extreme difficulty in getting to the bottom of this mystery , unless we can bring this man , , upon his knees .
That can only be done by stratagem , and by catching him when he is not surrounded by these people .
For , suppose he were apprehended , we have no proof against him .
He is not even ( so far as we know , or as the facts appear to us ) concerned with the gang in any of their robberies .
If he were not discharged , it is very unlikely that he could receive any further punishment than being committed to prison as a rogue and vagabond ; and of course ever afterwards his mouth would be so obstinately closed that he might as well , for our purposes , be deaf , dumb , blind , and an idiot . '
'Then , ' said the doctor impetuously , ' I put it to you again , whether you think it reasonable that this promise to the girl should be considered binding ; a promise made with the best and kindest intentions , but really -- ' 'Do not discuss the point , my dear young lady , pray , ' said , interrupting as she was about to speak .
'The promise shall be kept .
I do n't think it will , in the slightest degree , interfere with our proceedings .
But , before we can resolve upon any precise course of action , it will be necessary to see the girl ; to ascertain from her whether she will point out this Monks , on the understanding that he is to be dealt with by us , and not by the law ; or , if she will not , or can not do that , to procure from her such an account of his haunts and description of his person , as will enable us to identify him .
She can not be seen until next Sunday night ; this is Tuesday .
I would suggest that in the meantime , we remain perfectly quiet , and keep these matters secret even from himself . '
Although received with many wry faces a proposal involving a delay of five whole days , he was fain to admit that no better course occurred to him just then ; and as both Rose and Mrs. Maylie sided very strongly with , that gentleman 's proposition was carried unanimously .
' I should like , ' he said , 'to call in the aid of my friend .
He is a strange creature , but a shrewd one , and might prove of material assistance to us ; I should say that he was bred a lawyer , and quitted the in disgust because he had only one brief and a motion of course , in twenty years , though whether that is recommendation or not , you must determine for yourselves . '
' I have no objection to your calling in your friend if I may call in mine , ' said the doctor .
'We must put it to the vote , ' replied , 'who may he be ? '
'That lady 's son , and this young lady 's -- very old friend , ' said the doctor , motioning towards Mrs. Maylie , and concluding with an expressive glance at her niece .
blushed deeply , but she did not make any audible objection to this motion ( possibly she felt in a hopeless minority ) ; and and were accordingly added to the committee .
'We stay in town , of course , ' said Mrs. Maylie , 'while there remains the slightest prospect of prosecuting this inquiry with a chance of success .
I will spare neither trouble nor expense in behalf of the object in which we are all so deeply interested , and I am content to remain here , if it be for twelve months , so long as you assure me that any hope remains . '
'And as I see on the faces about me , a disposition to inquire how it happened that I was not in the way to corroborate 's tale , and had so suddenly left the kingdom , let me stipulate that I shall be asked no questions until such time as I may deem it expedient to forestall them by telling my own story .
me , I make this request with good reason , for I might otherwise excite hopes destined never to be realised , and only increase difficulties and disappointments already quite numerous enough .
has been announced , and young Oliver , who is all alone in the next room , will have begun to think , by this time , that we have wearied of his company , and entered into some dark conspiracy to thrust him forth upon the world . '
With these words , the old gentleman gave his hand to Mrs. Maylie , and escorted her into the supper-room .
followed , leading ; and the council was , for the present , effectually broken up .
Upon the night when , having lulled to sleep , hurried on her self-imposed mission to , there advanced towards , by the , two persons , upon whom it is expedient that this history should bestow some attention .
They were a man and woman ; or perhaps they would be better described as a male and female : for the former was one of those long-limbed , knock-kneed , shambling , bony people , to whom it is difficult to assign any precise age , -- looking as they do , when they are yet boys , like undergrown men , and when they are almost men , like overgrown boys .
The woman was young , but of a robust and hardy make , as she need have been to bear the weight of the heavy bundle which was strapped to her back .
Her companion was not encumbered with much luggage , as there merely dangled from a stick which he carried over his shoulder , a small parcel wrapped in a common handkerchief , and apparently light enough .
This circumstance , added to the length of his legs , which were of unusual extent , enabled him with much ease to keep some half-dozen paces in advance of his companion , to whom he occasionally turned with an impatient jerk of the head : as if reproaching her tardiness , and urging her to greater exertion .
Thus , they had toiled along the dusty road , taking little heed of any object within sight , save when they stepped aside to allow a wider passage for the mail-coaches which were whirling out of town , until they passed through archway ; when the foremost traveller stopped and called impatiently to his companion , 'Come on , ca n't yer ?
What a lazybones yer are , . '
'It 's a heavy load , I can tell you , ' said the female , coming up , almost breathless with fatigue .
What are yer talking about ?
What are yer made for ? '
rejoined the male traveller , changing his own little bundle as he spoke , to the other shoulder .
'Oh , there yer are , resting again !
Well , if yer ai n't enough to tire anybody 's patience out , I do n't know what is ! '
asked the woman , resting herself against a bank , and looking up with the perspiration streaming from her face .
Yer as good as there , ' said the long-legged tramper , pointing out before him .
Those are the lights of . '
'They 're a good two mile off , at least , ' said the woman despondingly .
'Never mind whether they 're two mile off , or twenty , ' said ; for he it was ; 'but get up and come on , or I 'll kick yer , and so I give yer notice . '
As 's red nose grew redder with anger , and as he crossed the road while speaking , as if fully prepared to put his threat into execution , the woman rose without any further remark , and trudged onward by his side .
'Where do you mean to stop for the night , ? '
she asked , after they had walked a few hundred yards .
replied , whose temper had been considerably impaired by walking .
'Near , I hope , ' said .
'No , not near , ' replied .
Not near ; so do n't think it . '
'When I tell yer that I do n't mean to do a thing , that 's enough , without any why or because either , ' replied with dignity .
'Well , you need n't be so cross , ' said his companion .
' A pretty thing it would be , would n't it to go and stop at the very first public-house outside the town , so that , if he come up after us , might poke in his old nose , and have us taken back in a cart with handcuffs on , ' said in a jeering tone .
I shall go and lose myself among the narrowest streets I can find , and not stop till we come to the very out-of-the-wayest house I can set eyes on .
'Cod , yer may thanks yer stars I 've got a head ; for if we had n't gone , at first , the wrong road a purpose , and come back across country , yer 'd have been locked up hard and fast a week ago , my lady .
And serve yer right for being a fool . '
' I know I ai n't as cunning as you are , ' replied ; 'but do n't put all the blame on me , and say I should have been locked up .
You would have been if I had been , any way . '
'Yer took the money from the till , yer know yer did , ' said .
' I took it for you , , dear , ' rejoined .
'No ; you trusted in me , and let me carry it like a dear , and so you are , ' said the lady , chucking him under the chin , and drawing her arm through his .
This was indeed the case ; but as it was not 's habit to repose a blind and foolish confidence in anybody , it should be observed , in justice to that gentleman , that he had trusted to this extent , in order that , if they were pursued , the money might be found on her : which would leave him an opportunity of asserting his innocence of any theft , and would greatly facilitate his chances of escape .
Of course , he entered at this juncture , into no explanation of his motives , and they walked on very lovingly together .
In pursuance of this cautious plan , went on , without halting , until he arrived at the Angel at , where he wisely judged , from the crowd of passengers and numbers of vehicles , that began in earnest .
Just pausing to observe which appeared the most crowded streets , and consequently the most to be avoided , he crossed into 's Road , and was soon deep in the obscurity of the intricate and dirty ways , which , lying between 's and , render that part of the town one of the lowest and worst that improvement has left in the midst of .
Through these streets , walked , dragging after him ; now stepping into the kennel to embrace at a glance the whole external character of some small public-house ; now jogging on again , as some fancied appearance induced him to believe it too public for his purpose .
At length , he stopped in front of one , more humble in appearance and more dirty than any he had yet seen ; and , having crossed over and surveyed it from the opposite pavement , graciously announced his intention of putting up there , for the night .
'So give us the bundle , ' said , unstrapping it from the woman 's shoulders , and slinging it over his own ; 'and do n't yer speak , except when yer spoke to .
What 's the name of the house -- t-h-r -- three what ? '
'Three Cripples , ' repeated , 'and a very good sign too .
Keep close at my heels , and come along . '
With these injunctions , he pushed the rattling door with his shoulder , and entered the house , followed by his companion .
There was nobody in the bar but a young Jew , who , with his two elbows on the counter , was reading a dirty newspaper .
He stared very hard at , and stared very hard at him .
If had been attired in his charity-boy 's dress , there might have been some reason for the Jew opening his eyes so wide ; but as he had discarded the coat and badge , and wore a short smock-frock over his leathers , there seemed no particular reason for his appearance exciting so much attention in a public-house .
'Is this the ? '
'That is the dabe of this 'ouse , ' replied the Jew .
' A gentleman we met on the road , coming up from the country , recommended us here , ' said , nudging , perhaps to call her attention to this most ingenious device for attracting respect , and perhaps to warn her to betray no surprise .
'We want to sleep here to-night . '
' I ' b dot certaid you cad , ' said , who was the attendant sprite ; 'but I 'll idquire . '
'Show us the tap , and give us a bit of cold meat and a drop of beer while yer inquiring , will yer ? '
complied by ushering them into a small back-room , and setting the required viands before them ; having done which , he informed the travellers that they could be lodged that night , and left the amiable couple to their refreshment .
Now , this back-room was immediately behind the bar , and some steps lower , so that any person connected with the house , undrawing a small curtain which concealed a single pane of glass fixed in the wall of the last-named apartment , about five feet from its flooring , could not only look down upon any guests in the back-room without any great hazard of being observed ( the glass being in a dark angle of the wall , between which and a large upright beam the observer had to thrust himself ) , but could , by applying his ear to the partition , ascertain with tolerable distinctness , their subject of conversation .
The landlord of the house had not withdrawn his eye from this place of espial for five minutes , and had only just returned from making the communication above related , when , in the course of his evening 's business , came into the bar to inquire after some of his young pupils .
said : 'stradegers id the next roob . '
repeated the old man in a whisper .
rub uds too , ' added .
'Frob the cuttry , but subthig in your way , or I ' b bistaked . '
appeared to receive this communication with great interest .
Mounting a stool , he cautiously applied his eye to the pane of glass , from which secret post he could see taking cold beef from the dish , and porter from the pot , and administering homeopathic doses of both to , who sat patiently by , eating and drinking at his pleasure .
he whispered , looking round to , ' I like that fellow 's looks .
He 'd be of use to us ; he knows how to train the girl already .
Do n't make as much noise as a mouse , my dear , and let me hear 'em talk -- let me hear 'em . '
He again applied his eye to the glass , and turning his ear to the partition , listened attentively : with a subtle and eager look upon his face , that might have appertained to some old goblin .
'So I mean to be a gentleman , ' said , kicking out his legs , and continuing a conversation , the commencement of which had arrived too late to hear .
'No more jolly old coffins , , but a gentleman 's life for me : and , if yer like , yer shall be a lady . '
' I should like that well enough , dear , ' replied ; 'but tills ai n't to be emptied every day , and people to get clear off after it . '
said ; 'there 's more things besides tills to be emptied . '
'Pockets , women 's ridicules , houses , mail-coaches , banks ! '
said , rising with the porter .
'But you ca n't do all that , dear , ' said .
' I shall look out to get into company with them as can , ' replied .
'They 'll be able to make us useful some way or another .
Why , you yourself are worth fifty women ; I never see such a precious sly and deceitful creetur as yer can be when I let yer . '
'Lor , how nice it is to hear yer say so ! '
exclaimed , imprinting a kiss upon his ugly face .
'There , that 'll do : do n't yer be too affectionate , in case I 'm cross with yer , ' said , disengaging himself with great gravity .
' I should like to be the captain of some band , and have the whopping of 'em , and follering 'em about , unbeknown to themselves .
That would suit me , if there was good profit ; and if we could only get in with some gentleman of this sort , I say it would be cheap at that twenty-pound note you 've got , -- especially as we do n't very well know how to get rid of it ourselves . '
After expressing this opinion , looked into the porter-pot with an aspect of deep wisdom ; and having well shaken its contents , nodded condescendingly to , and took a draught , wherewith he appeared greatly refreshed .
He was meditating another , when the sudden opening of the door , and the appearance of a stranger , interrupted him .
The stranger was .
And very amiable he looked , and a very low bow he made , as he advanced , and setting himself down at the nearest table , ordered something to drink of the grinning .
' A pleasant night , sir , but cool for the time of year , ' said , rubbing his hands .
'From the country , I see , sir ? '
'How do yer see that ? '
'We have not so much dust as that in , ' replied , pointing from 's shoes to those of his companion , and from them to the two bundles .
'Yer a sharp feller , ' said .
'Why , one need be sharp in this town , my dear , ' replied the Jew , sinking his voice to a confidential whisper ; 'and that 's the truth . '
followed up this remark by striking the side of his nose with his right forefinger , -- a gesture which attempted to imitate , though not with complete success , in consequence of his own nose not being large enough for the purpose .
However , seemed to interpret the endeavour as expressing a perfect coincidence with his opinion , and put about the liquor which reappeared with , in a very friendly manner .
'Good stuff that , ' observed , smacking his lips .
' A man need be always emptying a till , or a pocket , or a woman 's reticule , or a house , or a mail-coach , or a bank , if he drinks it regularly . '
Claypole no sooner heard this extract from his own remarks than he fell back in his chair , and looked from the Jew to with a countenance of ashy paleness and excessive terror .
'Do n't mind me , my dear , ' said , drawing his chair closer .
it was lucky it was only me that heard you by chance .
It was very lucky it was only me . '
' I did n't take it , ' stammered , no longer stretching out his legs like an independent gentleman , but coiling them up as well as he could under his chair ; 'it was all her doing ; yer 've got it now , , yer know yer have . '
'No matter who 's got it , or who did it , my dear , ' replied , glancing , nevertheless , with a hawk 's eye at the girl and the two bundles .
' I 'm in that way myself , and I like you for it . '
asked , a little recovering .
'In that way of business , ' rejoined ; 'and so are the people of the house .
You 've hit the right nail upon the head , and are as safe here as you could be .
There is not a safer place in all this town than is the ; that is , when I like to make it so .
And I have taken a fancy to you and the young woman ; so I 've said the word , and you may make your minds easy . '
's mind might have been at ease after this assurance , but his body certainly was not ; for he shuffled and writhed about , into various uncouth positions : eyeing his new friend meanwhile with mingled fear and suspicion .
' I 'll tell you more , ' said , after he had reassured the girl , by dint of friendly nods and muttered encouragements .
' I have got a friend that I think can gratify your darling wish , and put you in the right way , where you can take whatever department of the business you think will suit you best at first , and be taught all the others . '
'Yer speak as if yer were in earnest , ' replied .
'What advantage would it be to me to be anything else ? '
inquired Fagin , shrugging his shoulders .
Let me have a word with you outside . '
'There 's no occasion to trouble ourselves to move , ' said , getting his legs by gradual degrees abroad again .
'She 'll take the luggage upstairs the while .
, see to them bundles . '
This mandate , which had been delivered with great majesty , was obeyed without the slightest demur ; and made the best of her way off with the packages while held the door open and watched her out .
'She 's kept tolerably well under , ai n't she ? '
he asked as he resumed his seat : in the tone of a keeper who had tamed some wild animal .
'Quite perfect , ' rejoined , clapping him on the shoulder .
'You 're a genius , my dear . '
'Why , I suppose if I was n't , I should n't be here , ' replied .
'But , I say , she 'll be back if yer lose time . '
'Now , what do you think ? '
'If you was to like my friend , could you do better than join him ? '
'Is he in a good way of business ; that 's where it is ! '
responded , winking one of his little eyes .
'The top of the tree ; employs a power of hands ; has the very best society in the profession . '
'Not a countryman among 'em ; and I do n't think he 'd take you , even on my recommendation , if he did n't run rather short of assistants just now , ' replied .
'Should I have to hand over ? '
said , slapping his breeches-pocket .
'It could n't possibly be done without , ' replied , in a most decided manner .
'Twenty pound , though -- it 's a lot of money ! '
'Not when it 's in a note you ca n't get rid of , ' retorted .
'Number and date taken , I suppose ?
stopped at the ?
It 's not worth much to him .
It 'll have to go abroad , and he could n't sell it for a great deal in the market . '
'When could I see him ? '
'Live like a gentleman -- board and lodging , pipes and spirits free -- half of all you earn , and half of all the young woman earns , ' replied .
, whose rapacity was none of the least comprehensive , would have acceded even to these glowing terms , had he been a perfectly free agent , is very doubtful ; but as he recollected that , in the event of his refusal , it was in the power of his new acquaintance to give him up to justice immediately ( and more unlikely things had come to pass ) , he gradually relented , and said he thought that would suit him .
'But , yer see , ' observed , 'as she will be able to do a good deal , I should like to take something very light . '
something of that sort , ' replied .
'What do you think would suit me now ?
Something not too trying for the strength , and not very dangerous , you know .
That 's the sort of thing ! '
' I heard you talk of something in the spy way upon the others , my dear , ' said .
'My friend wants somebody who would do that well , very much . '
'Why , I did mention that , and I should n't mind turning my hand to it sometimes , ' rejoined slowly ; 'but it would n't pay by itself , you know . '
observed the Jew , ruminating or pretending to ruminate .
'What do you think , then ? '
asked , anxiously regarding him .
'Something in the sneaking way , where it was pretty sure work , and not much more risk than being at home . '
'What do you think of the old ladies ? '
'There 's a good deal of money made in snatching their bags and parcels , and running round the corner . '
'Do n't they holler out a good deal , and scratch sometimes ? '
asked , shaking his head .
' I do n't think that would answer my purpose .
Ai n't there any other line open ? '
said , laying his hand on 's knee .
'The kinchins , my dear , ' said , 'is the young children that 's sent on errands by their mothers , with sixpences and shillings ; and the lay is just to take their money away -- they 've always got it ready in their hands , -- then knock 'em into the kennel , and walk off very slow , as if there were nothing else the matter but a child fallen down and hurt itself .
roared , kicking up his legs in an ecstasy .
'Lord , that 's the very thing ! '
'To be sure it is , ' replied ; 'and you can have a few good beats chalked out in , and , and neighborhoods like that , where they 're always going errands ; and you can upset as many kinchins as you want , any hour in the day .
With this , poked in the side , and they joined in a burst of laughter both long and loud .
said , when he had recovered himself , and had returned .
'What time to-morrow shall we say ? '
asked , adding , as nodded assent , 'What name shall I tell my good friend . '
, ' replied , who had prepared himself for such emergency .
's humble servant , ' said , bowing with grotesque politeness .
' I hope I shall know her better very shortly . '
'Do you hear the gentleman , ? '
replied Mrs. Bolter , extending her hand .
'She calls me , as a sort of fond way of talking , ' said , late Claypole , turning to .
'Oh yes , I understand -- perfectly , ' replied , telling the truth for once .
With many adieus and good wishes , went his way .
, bespeaking his good lady 's attention , proceeded to enlighten her relative to the arrangement he had made , with all that haughtiness and air of superiority , becoming , not only a member of the sterner sex , but a gentleman who appreciated the dignity of a special appointment on the kinchin lay , in and its vicinity .
'And so it was you that was your own friend , was it ? '
asked , otherwise , when , by virtue of the compact entered into between them , he had removed next day to 's house .
''Cod , I thought as much last night ! '
'Every man 's his own friend , my dear , ' replied , with his most insinuating grin .
'He has n't as good a one as himself anywhere . '
'Except sometimes , ' replied , assuming the air of a man of the world .
'Some people are nobody 's enemies but their own , yer know . '
'Do n't believe that , ' said .
'When a man 's his own enemy , it 's only because he 's too much his own friend ; not because he 's careful for everybody but himself .
There ai n't such a thing in nature . '
'There ough n't to be , if there is , ' replied .
Some conjurers say that number three is the magic number , and some say number seven .
It 's neither , my friend , neither .
'In a little community like ours , my dear , ' said , who felt it necessary to qualify this position , 'we have a general number one , without considering me too as the same , and all the other young people . '
'You see , ' pursued , affecting to disregard this interruption , 'we are so mixed up together , and identified in our interests , that it must be so .
For instance , it 's your object to take care of number one -- meaning yourself . '
You ca n't take care of yourself , number one , without taking care of me , number one . '
'Number two , you mean , ' said , who was largely endowed with the quality of selfishness .
' I 'm of the same importance to you , as you are to yourself . '
' I say , ' interrupted , 'yer a very nice man , and I 'm very fond of yer ; but we ai n't quite so thick together , as all that comes to . '
'Only think , ' said , shrugging his shoulders , and stretching out his hands ; 'only consider .
You 've done what 's a very pretty thing , and what I love you for doing ; but what at the same time would put the cravat round your throat , that 's so very easily tied and so very difficult to unloose -- in plain , the halter ! '
put his hand to his neckerchief , as if he felt it inconveniently tight ; and murmured an assent , qualified in tone but not in substance .
'The gallows , ' continued , 'the gallows , my dear , is an ugly finger-post , which points out a very short and sharp turning that has stopped many a bold fellow 's career on the broad highway .
To keep in the easy road , and keep it at a distance , is object number one with you . '
'Of course it is , ' replied .
'What do yer talk about such things for ? '
'Only to show you my meaning clearly , ' said the Jew , raising his eyebrows .
'To be able to do that , you depend upon me .
To keep my little business all snug , I depend upon you .
The first is your number one , the second my number one .
The more you value your number one , the more careful you must be of mine ; so we come at last to what I told you at first -- that a regard for number one holds us all together , and must do so , unless we would all go to pieces in company . '
'That 's true , ' rejoined , thoughtfully .
yer a cunning old codger ! '
saw , with delight , that this tribute to his powers was no mere compliment , but that he had really impressed his recruit with a sense of his wily genius , which it was most important that he should entertain in the outset of their acquaintance .
To strengthen an impression so desirable and useful , he followed up the blow by acquainting him , in some detail , with the magnitude and extent of his operations ; blending truth and fiction together , as best served his purpose ; and bringing both to bear , with so much art , that 's respect visibly increased , and became tempered , at the same time , with a degree of wholesome fear , which it was highly desirable to awaken .
'It 's this mutual trust we have in each other that consoles me under heavy losses , ' said .
'My best hand was taken from me , yesterday morning . '
'You do n't mean to say he died ? '
'No , no , ' replied , 'not so bad as that .
'What , I suppose he was -- ' 'Wanted , ' interposed Fagin .
'No , ' replied , 'not very .
He was charged with attempting to pick a pocket , and they found a silver snuff-box on him , -- his own , my dear , his own , for he took snuff himself , and was very fond of it .
They remanded him till to-day , for they thought they knew the owner .
he was worth fifty boxes , and I 'd give the price of as many to have him back .
You should have known the , my dear ; you should have known the Dodger . '
'Well , but I shall know him , I hope ; do n't yer think so ? '
' I 'm doubtful about it , ' replied , with a sigh .
'If they do n't get any fresh evidence , it 'll only be a summary conviction , and we shall have him back again after six weeks or so ; but , if they do , it 's a case of lagging .
They know what a clever lad he is ; he 'll be a lifer .
They 'll make the nothing less than a lifer . '
'What do you mean by lagging and a lifer ? '
'What 's the good of talking in that way to me ; why do n't yer speak so as I can understand yer ? '
was about to translate these mysterious expressions into the vulgar tongue ; and , being interpreted , would have been informed that they represented that combination of words , 'transportation for life , ' when the dialogue was cut short by the entry of , with his hands in his breeches-pockets , and his face twisted into a look of semi-comical woe .
'It 's all up , , ' said , when he and his new companion had been made known to each other .
'They 've found the gentleman as owns the box ; two or three more 's a coming to 'dentify him ; and the 's booked for a passage out , ' replied .
' I must have a full suit of mourning , , and a hatband , to wisit him in , afore he sets out upon his travels .
To think of -- lummy Jack -- the Dodger -- the Dodger -- going abroad for a common twopenny-halfpenny sneeze-box !
I never thought he 'd a done it under a gold watch , chain , and seals , at the lowest .
Oh , why did n't he rob some rich old gentleman of all his walables , and go out as a gentleman , and not like a common prig , without no honour nor glory ! '
With this expression of feeling for his unfortunate friend , sat himself on the nearest chair with an aspect of chagrin and despondency .
'What do you talk about his having neither honour nor glory for ! '
exclaimed , darting an angry look at his pupil .
'Was n't he always the top-sawyer among you all !
Is there one of you that could touch him or come near him on any scent !
'Not one , ' replied , in a voice rendered husky by regret ; 'not one . '
'Then what do you talk of ? '
replied Fagin angrily ; 'what are you blubbering for ? '
''Cause it is n't on the rec-ord , is it ? '
said , chafed into perfect defiance of his venerable friend by the current of his regrets ; `` cause it ca n't come out in the 'dictment ; 'cause nobody will never know half of what he was .
How will he stand in the ?
P'raps not be there at all .
Oh , my eye , my eye , wot a blow it is ! '
cried Fagin , extending his right hand , and turning to in a fit of chuckling which shook him as though he had the palsy ; 'see what a pride they take in their profession , my dear .
nodded assent , and , after contemplating the grief of for some seconds with evident satisfaction , stepped up to that young gentleman and patted him on the shoulder .
'Never mind , , ' said soothingly ; 'it 'll come out , it 'll be sure to come out .
They 'll all know what a clever fellow he was ; he 'll show it himself , and not disgrace his old pals and teachers .
Think how young he is too !
What a distinction , , to be lagged at his time of life ! '
'Well , it is a honour that is ! '
said , a little consoled .
'He shall have all he wants , ' continued the Jew .
'He shall be kept in the Stone Jug , , like a gentleman .
With his beer every day , and money in his pocket to pitch and toss with , if he ca n't spend it . '
'Ay , that he shall , ' replied , 'and we 'll have a big-wig , : one that 's got the greatest gift of the gab : to carry on his defence ; and he shall make a speech for himself too , if he likes ; and we 'll read it all in the papers -- '' -- shrieks of laughter -- here the court was convulsed '' -- eh , , eh ? '
laughed , 'what a lark that would be , would n't it , ?
I say , how the would bother 'em would n't he ? '
'Ah , to be sure , so he will , ' repeated , rubbing his hands .
' I think I see him now , ' cried the Jew , bending his eyes upon his pupil .
'So do I , ' cried .
so do I. I see it all afore me , upon my soul I do , .
All the big-wigs trying to look solemn , and addressing of 'em as intimate and comfortable as if he was the judge 's own son making a speech arter dinner -- ha !
In fact , had so well humoured his young friend 's eccentric disposition , that , who had at first been disposed to consider the imprisoned rather in the light of a victim , now looked upon him as the chief actor in a scene of most uncommon and exquisite humour , and felt quite impatient for the arrival of the time when his old companion should have so favourable an opportunity of displaying his abilities .
'We must know how he gets on to-day , by some handy means or other , ' said .
'Not for the world , ' replied .
'Are you mad , my dear , stark mad , that you 'd walk into the very place where -- No , , no .
One is enough to lose at a time . '
'You do n't mean to go yourself , I suppose ? '
said with a humorous leer .
'That would n't quite fit , ' replied shaking his head .
'Then why do n't you send this new cove ? '
asked , laying his hand on 's arm .
'Why , if he did n't mind -- ' observed Fagin .
'What should he have to mind ? '
'Really nothing , my dear , ' said , turning to , 'really nothing . '
'Oh , I dare say about that , yer know , ' observed , backing towards the door , and shaking his head with a kind of sober alarm .
It 's not in my department , that ai n't . '
'Wot department has he got , ? '
inquired , surveying 's lank form with much disgust .
'The cutting away when there 's anything wrong , and the eating all the wittles when there 's everything right ; is that his branch ? '
'Never mind , ' retorted ; 'and do n't yer take liberties with yer superiors , little boy , or yer 'll find yerself in the wrong shop . '
laughed so vehemently at this magnificent threat , that it was some time before could interpose , and represent to that he incurred no possible danger in visiting the police-office ; that , inasmuch as no account of the little affair in which he had engaged , nor any description of his person , had yet been forwarded to the metropolis , it was very probable that he was not even suspected of having resorted to it for shelter ; and that , if he were properly disguised , it would be as safe a spot for him to visit as any in , inasmuch as it would be , of all places , the very last , to which he could be supposed likely to resort of his own free will .
Persuaded , in part , by these representations , but overborne in a much greater degree by his fear of , at length consented , with a very bad grace , to undertake the expedition .
By 's directions , he immediately substituted for his own attire , a waggoner 's frock , velveteen breeches , and leather leggings : all of which articles the had at hand .
He was likewise furnished with a felt hat well garnished with turnpike tickets ; and a carter 's whip .
Thus equipped , he was to saunter into the office , as some country fellow from market might be supposed to do for the gratification of his curiousity ; and as he was as awkward , ungainly , and raw-boned a fellow as need be , had no fear but that he would look the part to perfection .
These arrangements completed , he was informed of the necessary signs and tokens by which to recognise the , and was conveyed by through dark and winding ways to within a very short distance of .
Having described the precise situation of the office , and accompanied it with copious directions how he was to walk straight up the passage , and when he got into the side , and pull off his hat as he went into the room , bade him hurry on alone , and promised to bide his return on the spot of their parting .
, or as the reader pleases , punctually followed the directions he had received , which -- being pretty well acquainted with the locality -- were so exact that he was enabled to gain the magisterial presence without asking any question , or meeting with any interruption by the way .
He found himself jostled among a crowd of people , chiefly women , who were huddled together in a dirty frowsy room , at the upper end of which was a raised platform railed off from the rest , with a dock for the prisoners on the left hand against the wall , a box for the witnesses in the middle , and a desk for the magistrates on the right ; the awful locality last named , being screened off by a partition which concealed the bench from the common gaze , and left the vulgar to imagine ( if they could ) the full majesty of justice .
There were only a couple of women in the dock , who were nodding to their admiring friends , while the clerk read some depositions to a couple of policemen and a man in plain clothes who leant over the table .
A jailer stood reclining against the dock-rail , tapping his nose listlessly with a large key , except when he repressed an undue tendency to conversation among the idlers , by proclaiming silence ; or looked sternly up to bid some woman 'Take that baby out , ' when the gravity of justice was disturbed by feeble cries , half-smothered in the mother 's shawl , from some meagre infant .
The room smelt close and unwholesome ; the walls were dirt-discoloured ; and the ceiling blackened .
There was an old smoky bust over the mantel-shelf , and a dusty clock above the dock -- the only thing present , that seemed to go on as it ought ; for depravity , or poverty , or an habitual acquaintance with both , had left a taint on all the animate matter , hardly less unpleasant than the thick greasy scum on every inanimate object that frowned upon it .
looked eagerly about him for the ; but although there were several women who would have done very well for that distinguished character 's mother or sister , and more than one man who might be supposed to bear a strong resemblance to his father , nobody at all answering the description given him of was to be seen .
He waited in a state of much suspense and uncertainty until the women , being committed for trial , went flaunting out ; and then was quickly relieved by the appearance of another prisoner who he felt at once could be no other than the object of his visit .
It was indeed , who , shuffling into the office with the big coat sleeves tucked up as usual , his left hand in his pocket , and his hat in his right hand , preceded the jailer , with a rolling gait altogether indescribable , and , taking his place in the dock , requested in an audible voice to know what he was placed in that 'ere disgraceful sitivation for .
'Hold your tongue , will you ? '
' I 'm an Englishman , ai n't I ? '
'You 'll get your privileges soon enough , ' retorted the jailer , 'and pepper with 'em . '
'We 'll see wot the Secretary of State for the has got to say to the beaks , if I do n't , ' replied .
is this here business ?
I shall thank the madg'strates to dispose of this here little affair , and not to keep me while they read the paper , for I 've got an appointment with a genelman in the , and as I am a man of my word and wery punctual in business matters , he 'll go away if I ai n't there to my time , and then pr'aps ther wo n't be an action for damage against them as kep me away .
At this point , the , with a show of being very particular with a view to proceedings to be had thereafter , desired the jailer to communicate 'the names of them two files as was on the bench . '
Which so tickled the spectators , that they laughed almost as heartily as could have done if he had heard the request .
inquired one of the magistrates .
' A pick-pocketing case , your worship . '
'Has the boy ever been here before ? '
'He ought to have been , a many times , ' replied the jailer .
'He has been pretty well everywhere else .
_I_ know him well , your worship . '
you know me , do you ? '
cried the , making a note of the statement .
That 's a case of deformation of character , any way . '
Here there was another laugh , and another cry of silence .
'Now then , where are the witnesses ? '
that 's right , ' added the Dodger .
I should like to see 'em . '
This wish was immediately gratified , for a policeman stepped forward who had seen the prisoner attempt the pocket of an unknown gentleman in a crowd , and indeed take a handkerchief therefrom , which , being a very old one , he deliberately put back again , after trying it on his own countenance .
For this reason , he took the Dodger into custody as soon as he could get near him , and the said , being searched , had upon his person a silver snuff-box , with the owner 's name engraved upon the lid .
This gentleman had been discovered on reference to the Court Guide , and being then and there present , swore that the snuff-box was his , and that he had missed it on the previous day , the moment he had disengaged himself from the crowd before referred to .
He had also remarked a young gentleman in the throng , particularly active in making his way about , and that young gentleman was the prisoner before him .
'Have you anything to ask this witness , boy ? '
' I would n't abase myself by descending to hold no conversation with him , ' replied the Dodger .
'Have you anything to say at all ? '
'Do you hear his worship ask if you 've anything to say ? '
inquired the jailer , nudging the silent Dodger with his elbow .
' I beg your pardon , ' said the , looking up with an air of abstraction .
'Did you redress yourself to me , my man ? '
' I never see such an out-and-out young wagabond , your worship , ' observed the officer with a grin .
'Do you mean to say anything , you young shaver ? '
'No , ' replied the , 'not here , for this ai n't the shop for justice : besides which , my attorney is a-breakfasting this morning with the President of the of ; but I shall have something to say elsewhere , and so will he , and so will a wery numerous and 'spectable circle of acquaintance as 'll make them beaks wish they 'd never been born , or that they 'd got their footmen to hang 'em up to their own hat-pegs , afore they let 'em come out this morning to try it on upon me .
'Come on , ' said the jailer .
I 'll come on , ' replied the , brushing his hat with the palm of his hand .
( to the ) it 's no use your looking frightened ; I wo n't show you no mercy , not a ha'porth of it .
_You'll_ pay for this , my fine fellers .
I would n't be you for something !
I would n't go free , now , if you was to fall down on your knees and ask me .
Here , carry me off to prison !
With these last words , the suffered himself to be led off by the collar ; threatening , till he got into the yard , to make a parliamentary business of it ; and then grinning in the officer 's face , with great glee and self-approval .
Having seen him locked up by himself in a little cell , made the best of his way back to where he had left .
After waiting here some time , he was joined by that young gentleman , who had prudently abstained from showing himself until he had looked carefully abroad from a snug retreat , and ascertained that his new friend had not been followed by any impertinent person .
The two hastened back together , to bear to the animating news that the was doing full justice to his bringing-up , and establishing for himself a glorious reputation .
Adept as she was , in all the arts of cunning and dissimulation , the girl could not wholly conceal the effect which the knowledge of the step she had taken , wrought upon her mind .
She remembered that both the crafty Jew and the brutal had confided to her schemes , which had been hidden from all others : in the full confidence that she was trustworthy and beyond the reach of their suspicion .
Vile as those schemes were , desperate as were their originators , and bitter as were her feelings towards , who had led her , step by step , deeper and deeper down into an abyss of crime and misery , whence was no escape ; still , there were times when , even towards him , she felt some relenting , lest her disclosure should bring him within the iron grasp he had so long eluded , and he should fall at last -- richly as he merited such a fate -- by her hand .
But , these were the mere wanderings of a mind unable wholly to detach itself from old companions and associations , though enabled to fix itself steadily on one object , and resolved not to be turned aside by any consideration .
Her fears for would have been more powerful inducements to recoil while there was yet time ; but she had stipulated that her secret should be rigidly kept , she had dropped no clue which could lead to his discovery , she had refused , even for his sake , a refuge from all the guilt and wretchedness that encompasses her -- and what more could she do !
Though all her mental struggles terminated in this conclusion , they forced themselves upon her , again and again , and left their traces too .
She grew pale and thin , even within a few days .
At times , she took no heed of what was passing before her , or no part in conversations where once , she would have been the loudest .
At other times , she laughed without merriment , and was noisy without a moment afterwards -- she sat silent and dejected , brooding with her head upon her hands , while the very effort by which she roused herself , told , more forcibly than even these indications , that she was ill at ease , and that her thoughts were occupied with matters very different and distant from those in the course of discussion by her companions .
It was Sunday night , and the bell of the nearest church struck the hour .
Sikes and the Jew were talking , but they paused to listen .
The girl looked up from the low seat on which she crouched , and listened too .
'An hour this side of midnight , ' said , raising the blind to look out and returning to his seat .
'Dark and heavy it is too .
A good night for business this . '
'What a pity , , my dear , that there 's none quite ready to be done . '
'You 're right for once , ' replied gruffly .
'It is a pity , for I 'm in the humour too . '
sighed , and shook his head despondingly .
'We must make up for lost time when we 've got things into a good train .
That 's all I know , ' said .
'That 's the way to talk , my dear , ' replied , venturing to pat him on the shoulder .
'It does me good to hear you . '
'Does you good , does it ! '
laughed , as if he were relieved by even this concession .
'You 're like yourself to-night , .
' I do n't feel like myself when you lay that withered old claw on my shoulder , so take it away , ' said , casting off the 's hand .
'It make you nervous , , -- reminds you of being nabbed , does it ? '
said , determined not to be offended .
'Reminds me of being nabbed by the devil , ' returned .
'There never was another man with such a face as yours , unless it was your father , and I suppose _he_ is singeing his grizzled red beard by this time , unless you came straight from the old 'un without any father at all betwixt you ; which I should n't wonder at , a bit . '
offered no reply to this compliment : but , pulling Sikes by the sleeve , pointed his finger towards , who had taken advantage of the foregoing conversation to put on her bonnet , and was now leaving the room .
Where 's the gal going to at this time of night ? '
' I do n't know where , ' replied the girl .
'Then I do , ' said , more in the spirit of obstinacy than because he had any real objection to the girl going where she listed .
I told you that before , ' rejoined the girl .
' I want a breath of air . '
'Put your head out of the winder , ' replied .
'There 's not enough there , ' said the girl .
' I want it in the street . '
'Then you wo n't have it , ' replied .
With which assurance he rose , locked the door , took the key out , and pulling her bonnet from her head , flung it up to the top of an old press .
'Now stop quietly where you are , will you ? '
'It 's not such a matter as a bonnet would keep me , ' said the girl turning very pale .
'What do you mean , ?
Do you know what you 're doing ? '
cried , turning to , 'she 's out of her senses , you know , or she dare n't talk to me in that way . '
'You 'll drive me on the something desperate , ' muttered the girl placing both hands upon her breast , as though to keep down by force some violent outbreak .
'Let me go , will you , -- this minute -- this instant . '
'Tell him to let me go , .
It 'll be better for him .
cried Nancy stamping her foot upon the ground .
repeated turning round in his chair to confront her .
And if I hear you for half a minute longer , the dog shall have such a grip on your throat as 'll tear some of that screaming voice out .
has come over you , you jade !
'Let me go , ' said the girl with great earnestness ; then sitting herself down on the floor , before the door , she said , 'Bill , let me go ; you do n't know what you are doing .
'Cut my limbs off one by one ! '
cried , seizing her roughly by the arm , 'If I do n't think the gal 's stark raving mad .
'Not till you let me go -- not till you let me go -- Never -- never ! '
looked on , for a minute , watching his opportunity , and suddenly pinioning her hands dragged her , struggling and wrestling with him by the way , into a small room adjoining , where he sat himself on a bench , and thrusting her into a chair , held her down by force .
She struggled and implored by turns until twelve o'clock had struck , and then , wearied and exhausted , ceased to contest the point any further .
With a caution , backed by many oaths , to make no more efforts to go out that night , left her to recover at leisure and rejoined .
said the housebreaker wiping the perspiration from his face .
'Wot a precious strange gal that is ! '
'You may say that , , ' replied thoughtfully .
'Wot did she take it into her head to go out to-night for , do you think ? '
'Come ; you should know her better than me .
'Obstinacy ; woman 's obstinacy , I suppose , my dear . '
'Well , I suppose it is , ' growled .
' I thought I had tamed her , but she 's as bad as ever . '
' I never knew her like this , for such a little cause . '
' I think she 's got a touch of that fever in her blood yet , and it wo n't come out -- eh ? '
' I 'll let her a little blood , without troubling the doctor , if she 's took that way again , ' said .
nodded an expressive approval of this mode of treatment .
'She was hanging about me all day , and night too , when I was stretched on my back ; and you , like a blackhearted wolf as you are , kept yourself aloof , ' said .
'We was poor too , all the time , and I think , one way or other , it 's worried and fretted her ; and that being shut up here so long has made her restless -- eh ? '
'That 's it , my dear , ' replied the Jew in a whisper .
As he uttered these words , the girl herself appeared and resumed her former seat .
Her eyes were swollen and red ; she rocked herself to and fro ; tossed her head ; and , after a little time , burst out laughing .
'Why , now she 's on the other tack ! '
exclaimed , turning a look of excessive surprise on his companion .
nodded to him to take no further notice just then ; and , in a few minutes , the girl subsided into her accustomed demeanour .
Whispering that there was no fear of her relapsing , took up his hat and bade him good-night .
He paused when he reached the room-door , and looking round , asked if somebody would light him down the dark stairs .
'Light him down , ' said , who was filling his pipe .
'It 's a pity he should break his neck himself , and disappoint the sight-seers .
followed the old man downstairs , with a candle .
When they reached the passage , he laid his finger on his lip , and drawing close to the girl , said , in a whisper .
'What is it , , dear ? '
replied the girl , in the same tone .
'The reason of all this , ' replied .
'If _he_ ' -- he pointed with his skinny fore-finger up the stairs -- 'is so hard with you ( he 's a brute , , a brute-beast ) , why do n't you -- ' 'Well ? '
said the girl , as paused , with his mouth almost touching her ear , and his eyes looking into hers .
We 'll talk of this again .
You have a friend in me , ; a staunch friend .
I have the means at hand , quiet and close .
If you want revenge on those that treat you like a dog -- like a dog !
worse than his dog , for he humours him sometimes -- come to me .
I say , come to me .
He is the mere hound of a day , but you know me of old , . '
' I know you well , ' replied the girl , without manifesting the least emotion .
She shrank back , as offered to lay his hand on hers , but said good-night again , in a steady voice , and , answering his parting look with a nod of intelligence , closed the door between them .
walked towards his home , intent upon the thoughts that were working within his brain .
He had conceived the idea -- not from what had just passed though that had tended to confirm him , but slowly and by degrees -- that , wearied of the housebreaker 's brutality , had conceived an attachment for some new friend .
Her altered manner , her repeated absences from home alone , her comparative indifference to the interests of the gang for which she had once been so zealous , and , added to these , her desperate impatience to leave home that night at a particular hour , all favoured the supposition , and rendered it , to him at least , almost matter of certainty .
The object of this new liking was not among his myrmidons .
He would be a valuable acquisition with such an assistant as , and must ( thus argued ) be secured without delay .
There was another , and a darker object , to be gained .
knew too much , and his ruffian taunts had not galled Fagin the less , because the wounds were hidden .
The girl must know , well , that if she shook him off , she could never be safe from his fury , and that it would be surely wreaked -- to the maiming of limbs , or perhaps the loss of life -- on the object of her more recent fancy .
'With a little persuasion , ' thought , 'what more likely than that she would consent to poison him ?
Women have done such things , and worse , to secure the same object before now .
There would be the dangerous villain : the man I hate : gone ; another secured in his place ; and my influence over the girl , with a knowledge of this crime to back it , unlimited . '
These things passed through the mind of , during the short time he sat alone , in the housebreaker 's room ; and with them uppermost in his thoughts , he had taken the opportunity afterwards afforded him , of sounding the girl in the broken hints he threw out at parting .
There was no expression of surprise , no assumption of an inability to understand his meaning .
The girl clearly comprehended it .
Her glance at parting showed _that_ .
But perhaps she would recoil from a plot to take the life of , and that was one of the chief ends to be attained .
'How , ' thought , as he crept homeward , 'can I increase my influence with her ?
What new power can I acquire ? '
Such brains are fertile in expedients .
If , without extracting a confession from herself , he laid a watch , discovered the object of her altered regard , and threatened to reveal the whole history to ( of whom she stood in no common fear ) unless she entered into his designs , could he not secure her compliance ?
' I can , ' said , almost aloud .
'She durst not refuse me then .
Not for her life , not for her life !
The means are ready , and shall be set to work .
I shall have you yet ! '
He cast back a dark look , and a threatening motion of the hand , towards the spot where he had left the bolder villain ; and went on his way : busying his bony hands in the folds of his tattered garment , which he wrenched tightly in his grasp , as though there were a hated enemy crushed with every motion of his fingers .
The old man was up , betimes , next morning , and waited impatiently for the appearance of his new associate , who after a delay that seemed interminable , at length presented himself , and commenced a voracious assault on the breakfast .
'Bolter , ' said , drawing up a chair and seating himself opposite .
'Well , here I am , ' returned .
Do n't yer ask me to do anything till I have done eating .
That 's a great fault in this place .
Yer never get time enough over yer meals . '
'You can talk as you eat , ca n't you ? '
said , cursing his dear young friend 's greediness from the very bottom of his heart .
'Oh yes , I can talk .
I get on better when I talk , ' said , cutting a monstrous slice of bread .
' I sent her out this morning with the other young woman , because I wanted us to be alone . '
' I wish yer 'd ordered her to make some buttered toast first .
There seemed , indeed , no great fear of anything interrupting him , as he had evidently sat down with a determination to do a great deal of business .
'You did well yesterday , my dear , ' said .
Six shillings and ninepence halfpenny on the very first day !
The kinchin lay will be a fortune to you . '
'Do n't you forget to add three pint-pots and a milk-can , ' said .
The pint-pots were great strokes of genius : but the milk-can was a perfect masterpiece . '
'Pretty well , I think , for a beginner , ' remarked complacently .
'The pots I took off airy railings , and the milk-can was standing by itself outside a public-house .
I thought it might get rusty with the rain , or catch cold , yer know .
Fagin affected to laugh very heartily ; and having had his laugh out , took a series of large bites , which finished his first hunk of bread and butter , and assisted himself to a second .
' I want you , , ' said , leaning over the table , 'to do a piece of work for me , my dear , that needs great care and caution . '
' I say , ' rejoined , 'do n't yer go shoving me into danger , or sending me any more o ' yer police-offices .
That do n't suit me , that do n't ; and so I tell yer . '
'That 's not the smallest danger in it -- not the very smallest , ' said the ; 'it 's only to dodge a woman . '
' A young one , ' replied .
' I can do that pretty well , I know , ' said .
' I was a regular cunning sneak when I was at school .
What am I to dodge her for ?
Not to -- ' 'Not to do anything , but to tell me where she goes , who she sees , and , if possible , what she says ; to remember the street , if it is a street , or the house , if it is a house ; and to bring me back all the information you can . '
asked , setting down his cup , and looking his employer , eagerly , in the face .
'If you do it well , a pound , my dear .
One pound , ' said , wishing to interest him in the scent as much as possible .
'And that 's what I never gave yet , for any job of work where there was n't valuable consideration to be gained . '
cried , curling up his nose .
'Yer doubtful of her , are yer ? '
'She has found out some new friends , my dear , and I must know who they are , ' replied .
'Just to have the pleasure of knowing them , if they 're respectable people , eh ?
' I knew you would be , ' cried , elated by the success of his proposal .
'Of course , of course , ' replied .
Where am I to wait for her ?
Where am I to go ? '
'All that , my dear , you shall hear from me .
I 'll point her out at the proper time , ' said .
'You keep ready , and leave the rest to me . '
That night , and the next , and the next again , the spy sat booted and equipped in his carter 's dress : ready to turn out at a word from .
Six nights passed -- six long weary nights -- and on each , came home with a disappointed face , and briefly intimated that it was not yet time .
On the seventh , he returned earlier , and with an exultation he could not conceal .
'She goes abroad to-night , ' said , 'and on the right errand , I 'm sure ; for she has been alone all day , and the man she is afraid of will not be back much before daybreak .
started up without saying a word ; for the Jew was in a state of such intense excitement that it infected him .
They left the house stealthily , and hurrying through a labyrinth of streets , arrived at length before a public-house , which recognised as the same in which he had slept , on the night of his arrival in .
It was past eleven o'clock , and the door was closed .
It opened softly on its hinges as gave a low whistle .
They entered , without noise ; and the door was closed behind them .
Scarcely venturing to whisper , but substituting dumb show for words , , and the young Jew who had admitted them , pointed out the pane of glass to , and signed to him to climb up and observe the person in the adjoining room .
he asked , scarcely above his breath .
' I ca n't see her face well , ' whispered .
'She is looking down , and the candle is behind her .
He signed to , who withdrew .
In an instant , the lad entered the room adjoining , and , under pretence of snuffing the candle , moved it in the required position , and , speaking to the girl , caused her to raise her face .
' I see her now , ' cried the spy .
' I should know her among a thousand . '
He hastily descended , as the room-door opened , and the girl came out .
drew him behind a small partition which was curtained off , and they held their breaths as she passed within a few feet of their place of concealment , and emerged by the door at which they had entered .
cried the lad who held the door .
exchanged a look with , and darted out .
'To the left , ' whispered the lad ; 'take the left had , and keep od the other side . '
He did so ; and , by the light of the lamps , saw the girl 's retreating figure , already at some distance before him .
He advanced as near as he considered prudent , and kept on the opposite side of the street , the better to observe her motions .
She looked nervously round , twice or thrice , and once stopped to let two men who were following close behind her , pass on .
She seemed to gather courage as she advanced , and to walk with a steadier and firmer step .
The spy preserved the same relative distance between them , and followed : with his eye upon her .
The church clocks chimed three quarters past eleven , as two figures emerged on .
One , which advanced with a swift and rapid step , was that of a woman who looked eagerly about her as though in quest of some expected object ; the other figure was that of a man , who slunk along in the deepest shadow he could find , and , at some distance , accommodated his pace to hers : stopping when she stopped : and as she moved again , creeping stealthily on : but never allowing himself , in the ardour of his pursuit , to gain upon her footsteps .
Thus , they crossed the bridge , from the to the Surrey shore , when the woman , apparently disappointed in her anxious scrutiny of the foot-passengers , turned back .
The movement was sudden ; but he who watched her , was not thrown off his guard by it ; for , shrinking into one of the recesses which surmount the piers of the bridge , and leaning over the parapet the better to conceal his figure , he suffered her to pass on the opposite pavement .
When she was about the same distance in advance as she had been before , he slipped quietly down , and followed her again .
At nearly the centre of the bridge , she stopped .
It was a very dark night .
The day had been unfavourable , and at that hour and place there were few people stirring .
Such as there were , hurried quickly past : very possibly without seeing , but certainly without noticing , either the woman , or the man who kept her in view .
Their appearance was not calculated to attract the importunate regards of such of 's destitute population , as chanced to take their way over the bridge that night in search of some cold arch or doorless hovel wherein to lay their heads ; they stood there in silence : neither speaking nor spoken to , by any one who passed .
A mist hung over the river , deepening the red glare of the fires that burnt upon the small craft moored off the different wharfs , and rendering darker and more indistinct the murky buildings on the banks .
The old smoke-stained storehouses on either side , rose heavy and dull from the dense mass of roofs and gables , and frowned sternly upon water too black to reflect even their lumbering shapes .
The tower of old Saint Saviour 's , and the spire of , so long the giant-warders of the ancient bridge , were visible in the gloom ; but the forest of shipping below bridge , and the thickly scattered spires of churches above , were nearly all hidden from sight .
The girl had taken a few restless turns to and fro -- closely watched meanwhile by her hidden observer -- when the heavy bell of 's tolled for the death of another day .
had come upon the crowded city .
The palace , the night-cellar , the jail , the madhouse : the chambers of birth and death , of health and sickness , the rigid face of the corpse and the calm sleep of the child : midnight was upon them all .
The hour had not struck two minutes , when a young lady , accompanied by a grey-haired gentleman , alighted from a hackney-carriage within a short distance of the bridge , and , having dismissed the vehicle , walked straight towards it .
They had scarcely set foot upon its pavement , when the girl started , and immediately made towards them .
They walked onward , looking about them with the air of persons who entertained some very slight expectation which had little chance of being realised , when they were suddenly joined by this new associate .
They halted with an exclamation of surprise , but suppressed it immediately ; for a man in the garments of a countryman came close up -- brushed against them , indeed -- at that precise moment .
'Not here , ' said hurriedly , ' I am afraid to speak to you here .
Come away -- out of the public road -- down the steps yonder ! '
As she uttered these words , and indicated , with her hand , the direction in which she wished them to proceed , the countryman looked round , and roughly asking what they took up the whole pavement for , passed on .
The steps to which the girl had pointed , were those which , on the bank , and on the same side of the bridge as 's , form a landing-stairs from the river .
To this spot , the man bearing the appearance of a countryman , hastened unobserved ; and after a moment 's survey of the place , he began to descend .
These stairs are a part of the bridge ; they consist of three flights .
Just below the end of the second , going down , the stone wall on the left terminates in an ornamental pilaster facing towards the .
At this point the lower steps widen : so that a person turning that angle of the wall , is necessarily unseen by any others on the stairs who chance to be above him , if only a step .
The countryman looked hastily round , when he reached this point ; and as there seemed no better place of concealment , and , the tide being out , there was plenty of room , he slipped aside , with his back to the pilaster , and there waited : pretty certain that they would come no lower , and that even if he could not hear what was said , he could follow them again , with safety .
So tardily stole the time in this lonely place , and so eager was the spy to penetrate the motives of an interview so different from what he had been led to expect , that he more than once gave the matter up for lost , and persuaded himself , either that they had stopped far above , or had resorted to some entirely different spot to hold their mysterious conversation .
He was on the point of emerging from his hiding-place , and regaining the road above , when he heard the sound of footsteps , and directly afterwards of voices almost close at his ear .
He drew himself straight upright against the wall , and , scarcely breathing , listened attentively .
'This is far enough , ' said a voice , which was evidently that of the gentleman .
' I will not suffer the young lady to go any farther .
Many people would have distrusted you too much to have come even so far , but you see I am willing to humour you . '
cried the voice of the girl whom he had followed .
Well , well , it 's no matter . '
'Why , for what , ' said the gentleman in a kinder tone , 'for what purpose can you have brought us to this strange place ?
Why not have let me speak to you , above there , where it is light , and there is something stirring , instead of bringing us to this dark and dismal hole ? '
' I told you before , ' replied , 'that I was afraid to speak to you there .
I do n't know why it is , ' said the girl , shuddering , 'but I have such a fear and dread upon me to-night that I can hardly stand . '
asked the gentleman , who seemed to pity her .
' I scarcely know of what , ' replied the girl .
thoughts of death , and shrouds with blood upon them , and a fear that has made me burn as if I was on fire , have been upon me all day .
I was reading a book to-night , to wile the time away , and the same things came into the print . '
'Imagination , ' said the gentleman , soothing her .
'No imagination , ' replied the girl in a hoarse voice .
' I 'll swear I saw `` coffin '' written in every page of the book in large black letters , -- aye , and they carried one close to me , in the streets to-night . '
'There is nothing unusual in that , ' said the gentleman .
'They have passed me often . '
'_Real ones_ , ' rejoined the girl .
There was something so uncommon in her manner , that the flesh of the concealed listener crept as he heard the girl utter these words , and the blood chilled within him .
He had never experienced a greater relief than in hearing the sweet voice of the young lady as she begged her to be calm , and not allow herself to become the prey of such fearful fancies .
'Speak to her kindly , ' said the young lady to her companion .
She seems to need it . '
'Your haughty religious people would have held their heads up to see me as I am to-night , and preached of flames and vengeance , ' cried the girl .
'Oh , dear lady , why ar ' n't those who claim to be 's own folks as gentle and as kind to us poor wretches as you , who , having youth , and beauty , and all that they have lost , might be a little proud instead of so much humbler ? '
' A turns his face , after washing it well , to the , when he says his prayers ; these good people , after giving their faces such a rub against the World as to take the smiles off , turn with no less regularity , to the darkest side of .
Between the and the , commend me to the first ! '
These words appeared to be addressed to the young lady , and were perhaps uttered with the view of affording time to recover herself .
The gentleman , shortly afterwards , addressed himself to her .
'You were not here last Sunday night , ' he said .
' I could n't come , ' replied ; ' I was kept by force . '
'Him that I told the young lady of before . '
'You were not suspected of holding any communication with anybody on the subject which has brought us here to-night , I hope ? '
'No , ' replied the girl , shaking her head .
'It 's not very easy for me to leave him unless he knows why ; I could n't give him a drink of laudanum before I came away . '
'Did he awake before you returned ? '
'No ; and neither he nor any of them suspect me . '
' I am ready , ' replied the girl , as he paused for a moment .
'This young lady , ' the gentleman began , 'has communicated to me , and to some other friends who can be safely trusted , what you told her nearly a fortnight since .
I confess to you that I had doubts , at first , whether you were to be implicitly relied upon , but now I firmly believe you are . '
' I am , ' said the girl earnestly .
' I repeat that I firmly believe it .
To prove to you that I am disposed to trust you , I tell you without reserve , that we propose to extort the secret , whatever it may be , from the fear of this man .
But if -- if -- ' said the gentleman , 'he can not be secured , or , if secured , can not be acted upon as we wish , you must deliver up the Jew . '
'Fagin , ' cried the girl , recoiling .
'That man must be delivered up by you , ' said the gentleman .
' I will not do it !
I will never do it ! '
'Devil that he is , and worse than devil as he has been to me , I will never do that . '
said the gentleman , who seemed fully prepared for this answer .
'For one reason , ' rejoined the girl firmly , 'for one reason , that the lady knows and will stand by me in , I know she will , for I have her promise : and for this other reason , besides , that , bad life as he has led , I have led a bad life too ; there are many of us who have kept the same courses together , and I 'll not turn upon them , who might -- any of them -- have turned upon me , but did n't , bad as they are . '
'Then , ' said the gentleman , quickly , as if this had been the point he had been aiming to attain ; 'put Monks into my hands , and leave him to me to deal with . '
'What if he turns against the others ? '
' I promise you that in that case , if the truth is forced from him , there the matter will rest ; there must be circumstances in 's little history which it would be painful to drag before the public eye , and if the truth is once elicited , they shall go scot free . '
'And if it is not ? '
'Then , ' pursued the gentleman , 'this shall not be brought to justice without your consent .
In such a case I could show you reasons , I think , which would induce you to yield it . '
'Have I the lady 's promise for that ? '
'My true and faithful pledge . '
'Monks would never learn how you knew what you do ? '
said the girl , after a short pause .
'The intelligence should be brought to bear upon him , that he could never even guess . '
' I have been a liar , and among liars from a little child , ' said the girl after another interval of silence , 'but I will take your words . '
After receiving an assurance from both , that she might safely do so , she proceeded in a voice so low that it was often difficult for the listener to discover even the purport of what she said , to describe , by name and situation , the public-house whence she had been followed that night .
From the manner in which she occasionally paused , it appeared as if the gentleman were making some hasty notes of the information she communicated .
When she had thoroughly explained the localities of the place , the best position from which to watch it without exciting observation , and the night and hour on which was most in the habit of frequenting it , she seemed to consider for a few moments , for the purpose of recalling his features and appearances more forcibly to her recollection .
'He is tall , ' said the girl , 'and a strongly made man , but not stout ; he has a lurking walk ; and as he walks , constantly looks over his shoulder , first on one side , and then on the other .
Do n't forget that , for his eyes are sunk in his head so much deeper than any other man 's , that you might almost tell him by that alone .
His face is dark , like his hair and eyes ; and , although he ca n't be more than six or eight and twenty , withered and haggard .
His lips are often discoloured and disfigured with the marks of teeth ; for he has desperate fits , and sometimes even bites his hands and covers them with wounds -- why did you start ? '
said the girl , stopping suddenly .
The gentleman replied , in a hurried manner , that he was not conscious of having done so , and begged her to proceed .
'Part of this , ' said the girl , ' I have drawn out from other people at the house I tell you of , for I have only seen him twice , and both times he was covered up in a large cloak .
I think that 's all I can give you to know him by .
'Upon his throat : so high that you can see a part of it below his neckerchief when he turns his face : there is -- ' ' A broad red mark , like a burn or scald ? '
The young lady uttered a cry of surprise , and for a few moments they were so still that the listener could distinctly hear them breathe .
' I think I do , ' said the gentleman , breaking silence .
' I should by your description .
Many people are singularly like each other .
It may not be the same . '
As he expressed himself to this effect , with assumed carelessness , he took a step or two nearer the concealed spy , as the latter could tell from the distinctness with which he heard him mutter , 'It must be he ! '
'Now , ' he said , returning : so it seemed by the sound : to the spot where he had stood before , 'you have given us most valuable assistance , young woman , and I wish you to be the better for it .
What can I do to serve you ? '
'You will not persist in saying that , ' rejoined the gentleman , with a voice and emphasis of kindness that might have touched a much harder and more obdurate heart .
'Nothing , sir , ' rejoined the girl , weeping .
'You can do nothing to help me .
I am past all hope , indeed . '
'You put yourself beyond its pale , ' said the gentleman .
'The past has been a dreary waste with you , of youthful energies mis-spent , and such priceless treasures lavished , as the bestows but once and never grants again , but , for the future , you may hope .
I do not say that it is in our power to offer you peace of heart and mind , for that must come as you seek it ; but a quiet asylum , either in , or , if you fear to remain here , in some foreign country , it is not only within the compass of our ability but our most anxious wish to secure you .
Before the dawn of morning , before this river wakes to the first glimpse of day-light , you shall be placed as entirely beyond the reach of your former associates , and leave as utter an absence of all trace behind you , as if you were to disappear from the earth this moment .
I would not have you go back to exchange one word with any old companion , or take one look at any old haunt , or breathe the very air which is pestilence and death to you .
Quit them all , while there is time and opportunity ! '
'She will be persuaded now , ' cried the young lady .
'She hesitates , I am sure . '
' I fear not , my dear , ' said the gentleman .
'No sir , I do not , ' replied the girl , after a short struggle .
' I am chained to my old life .
I loathe and hate it now , but I can not leave it .
I must have gone too far to turn back , -- and yet I do n't know , for if you had spoken to me so , some time ago , I should have laughed it off .
But , ' she said , looking hastily round , 'this fear comes over me again .
repeated the young lady , with great stress upon the word .
'Home , lady , ' rejoined the girl .
'To such a home as I have raised for myself with the work of my whole life .
I shall be watched or seen .
If I have done you any service all I ask is , that you leave me , and let me go my way alone . '
'It is useless , ' said the gentleman , with a sigh .
'We compromise her safety , perhaps , by staying here .
We may have detained her longer than she expected already . '
'Yes , yes , ' urged the girl .
'What , ' cried the young lady , 'can be the end of this poor creature 's life ! '
at that dark water .
How many times do you read of such as I who spring into the tide , and leave no living thing , to care for , or bewail them .
It may be years hence , or it may be only months , but I shall come to that at last . '
'Do not speak thus , pray , ' returned the young lady , sobbing .
'It will never reach your ears , dear lady , and forbid such horrors should ! '
'This purse , ' cried the young lady .
'Take it for my sake , that you may have some resource in an hour of need and trouble . '
' I have not done this for money .
Let me have that to think of .
And yet -- give me something that you have worn : I should like to have something -- no , no , not a ring -- your gloves or handkerchief -- anything that I can keep , as having belonged to you , sweet lady .
The violent agitation of the girl , and the apprehension of some discovery which would subject her to ill-usage and violence , seemed to determine the gentleman to leave her , as she requested .
The sound of retreating footsteps were audible and the voices ceased .
The two figures of the young lady and her companion soon afterwards appeared upon the bridge .
They stopped at the summit of the stairs .
cried the young lady , listening .
I thought I heard her voice . '
'No , my love , ' replied , looking sadly back .
'She has not moved , and will not till we are gone . '
lingered , but the old gentleman drew her arm through his , and led her , with gentle force , away .
As they disappeared , the girl sunk down nearly at her full length upon one of the stone stairs , and vented the anguish of her heart in bitter tears .
After a time she arose , and with feeble and tottering steps ascended the street .
The astonished listener remained motionless on his post for some minutes afterwards , and having ascertained , with many cautious glances round him , that he was again alone , crept slowly from his hiding-place , and returned , stealthily and in the shade of the wall , in the same manner as he had descended .
Peeping out , more than once , when he reached the top , to make sure that he was unobserved , darted away at his utmost speed , and made for the 's house as fast as his legs would carry him .
It was nearly two hours before day-break ; that time which in the autumn of the year , may be truly called the dead of night ; when the streets are silent and deserted ; when even sounds appear to slumber , and profligacy and riot have staggered home to dream ; it was at this still and silent hour , that sat watching in his old lair , with face so distorted and pale , and eyes so red and blood-shot , that he looked less like a man , than like some hideous phantom , moist from the grave , and worried by an evil spirit .
He sat crouching over a cold hearth , wrapped in an old torn coverlet , with his face turned towards a wasting candle that stood upon a table by his side .
His right hand was raised to his lips , and as , absorbed in thought , he hit his long black nails , he disclosed among his toothless gums a few such fangs as should have been a dog 's or rat 's .
Stretched upon a mattress on the floor , lay , fast asleep .
Towards him the old man sometimes directed his eyes for an instant , and then brought them back again to the candle ; which with a long-burnt wick drooping almost double , and hot grease falling down in clots upon the table , plainly showed that his thoughts were busy elsewhere .
Mortification at the overthrow of his notable scheme ; hatred of the girl who had dared to palter with strangers ; and utter distrust of the sincerity of her refusal to yield him up ; bitter disappointment at the loss of his revenge on ; the fear of detection , and ruin , and death ; and a fierce and deadly rage kindled by all ; these were the passionate considerations which , following close upon each other with rapid and ceaseless whirl , shot through the brain of , as every evil thought and blackest purpose lay working at his heart .
He sat without changing his attitude in the least , or appearing to take the smallest heed of time , until his quick ear seemed to be attracted by a footstep in the street .
'At last , ' he muttered , wiping his dry and fevered mouth .
The bell rang gently as he spoke .
He crept upstairs to the door , and presently returned accompanied by a man muffled to the chin , who carried a bundle under one arm .
Sitting down and throwing back his outer coat , the man displayed the burly frame of .
he said , laying the bundle on the table .
'Take care of that , and do the most you can with it .
It 's been trouble enough to get ; I thought I should have been here , three hours ago . '
laid his hand upon the bundle , and locking it in the cupboard , sat down again without speaking .
But he did not take his eyes off the robber , for an instant , during this action ; and now that they sat over against each other , face to face , he looked fixedly at him , with his lips quivering so violently , and his face so altered by the emotions which had mastered him , that the housebreaker involuntarily drew back his chair , and surveyed him with a look of real affright .
'Wot do you look at a man so for ? '
raised his right hand , and shook his trembling forefinger in the air ; but his passion was so great , that the power of speech was for the moment gone .
said , feeling in his breast with a look of alarm .
I must look to myself here . '
'No , no , ' rejoined , finding his voice .
'It 's not -- you 're not the person , .
I 've no -- no fault to find with you . '
'Oh , you have n't , have n't you ? '
said , looking sternly at him , and ostentatiously passing a pistol into a more convenient pocket .
'That 's lucky -- for one of us .
Which one that is , do n't matter . '
' I 've got that to tell you , , ' said , drawing his chair nearer , 'will make you worse than me . '
returned the robber with an incredulous air .
sharp , or will think I 'm lost . '
'She has pretty well settled that , in her own mind , already . '
looked with an aspect of great perplexity into the 's face , and reading no satisfactory explanation of the riddle there , clenched his coat collar in his huge hand and shook him soundly .
he said ; 'or if you do n't , it shall be for want of breath .
Open your mouth and say wot you 've got to say in plain words .
Out with it , you thundering old cur , out with it ! '
'Suppose that lad that 's laying there -- ' began .
turned round to where was sleeping , as if he had not previously observed him .
he said , resuming his former position .
'Suppose that lad , ' pursued , 'was to peach -- to blow upon us all -- first seeking out the right folks for the purpose , and then having a meeting with 'em in the street to paint our likenesses , describe every mark that they might know us by , and the crib where we might be most easily taken .
Suppose he was to do all this , and besides to blow upon a plant we 've all been in , more or less -- of his own fancy ; not grabbed , trapped , tried , earwigged by the parson and brought to it on bread and water , -- but of his own fancy ; to please his own taste ; stealing out at nights to find those most interested against us , and peaching to them .
cried the Jew , his eyes flashing with rage .
'Suppose he did all this , what then ? '
replied ; with a tremendous oath .
'If he was left alive till I came , I 'd grind his skull under the iron heel of my boot into as many grains as there are hairs upon his head . '
'What if I did it ! '
cried almost in a yell .
' I , that knows so much , and could hang so many besides myself ! '
' I do n't know , ' replied , clenching his teeth and turning white at the mere suggestion .
' I 'd do something in the jail that 'ud get me put in irons ; and if I was tried along with you , I 'd fall upon you with them in the open court , and beat your brains out afore the people .
I should have such strength , ' muttered the robber , poising his brawny arm , 'that I could smash your head as if a loaded waggon had gone over it . '
'If it was , or the , or , or -- ' ' I do n't care who , ' replied impatiently .
'Whoever it was , I 'd serve them the same . '
looked hard at the robber ; and , motioning him to be silent , stooped over the bed upon the floor , and shook the sleeper to rouse him .
leant forward in his chair : looking on with his hands upon his knees , as if wondering much what all this questioning and preparation was to end in .
said , looking up with an expression of devilish anticipation , and speaking slowly and with marked emphasis .
'He 's tired -- tired with watching for her so long , -- watching for _her_ , . '
made no answer , but bending over the sleeper again , hauled him into a sitting posture .
When his assumed name had been repeated several times , rubbed his eyes , and , giving a heavy yawn , looked sleepily about him .
'Tell me that again -- once again , just for him to hear , ' said the Jew , pointing to as he spoke .
asked the sleepy , shaking himself pettishly .
'That about -- , ' said , clutching Sikes by the wrist , as if to prevent his leaving the house before he had heard enough .
'Where she met two people . '
' A gentleman and a lady that she had gone to of her own accord before , who asked her to give up all her pals , and first , which she did -- and to describe him , which she did -- and to tell her what house it was that we meet at , and go to , which she did -- and where it could be best watched from , which she did -- and what time the people went there , which she did .
She told it all every word without a threat , without a murmur -- she did -- did she not ? '
cried Fagin , half mad with fury .
'All right , ' replied , scratching his head .
'That 's just what it was ! '
'What did they say , about last Sunday ? '
'Why I told yer that before . '
cried Fagin , tightening his grasp on , and brandishing his other hand aloft , as the foam flew from his lips .
'They asked her , ' said , who , as he grew more wakeful , seemed to have a dawning perception who was , 'they asked her why she did n't come , last Sunday , as she promised .
'Because she was forcibly kept at home by , the man she had told them of before , ' replied .
'What more of the man she had told them of before ?
him that , tell him that . '
'Why , that she could n't very easily get out of doors unless he knew where she was going to , ' said ; 'and so the first time she went to see the lady , she -- ha !
it made me laugh when she said it , that it did -- she gave him a drink of laudanum . '
cried , breaking fiercely from the Jew .
Flinging the old man from him , he rushed from the room , and darted , wildly and furiously , up the stairs .
cried Fagin , following him hastily .
The word would not have been exchanged , but that the housebreaker was unable to open the door : on which he was expending fruitless oaths and violence , when the came panting up .
'Let me out , ' said .
'Do n't speak to me ; it 's not safe .
Let me out , I say ! '
'Hear me speak a word , ' rejoined , laying his hand upon the lock .
'You wo n't be -- ' 'Well , ' replied the other .
The day was breaking , and there was light enough for the men to see each other 's faces .
They exchanged one brief glance ; there was a fire in the eyes of both , which could not be mistaken .
' I mean , ' said , showing that he felt all disguise was now useless , 'not too violent for safety .
Be crafty , , and not too bold . '
made no reply ; but , pulling open the door , of which had turned the lock , dashed into the silent streets .
Without one pause , or moment 's consideration ; without once turning his head to the right or left , or raising his eyes to the sky , or lowering them to the ground , but looking straight before him with savage resolution : his teeth so tightly compressed that the strained jaw seemed starting through his skin ; the robber held on his headlong course , nor muttered a word , nor relaxed a muscle , until he reached his own door .
He opened it , softly , with a key ; strode lightly up the stairs ; and entering his own room , double-locked the door , and lifting a heavy table against it , drew back the curtain of the bed .
The girl was lying , half-dressed , upon it .
He had roused her from her sleep , for she raised herself with a hurried and startled look .
said the girl , with an expression of pleasure at his return .
'It is , ' was the reply .
There was a candle burning , but the man hastily drew it from the candlestick , and hurled it under the grate .
Seeing the faint light of early day without , the girl rose to undraw the curtain .
'Let it be , ' said , thrusting his hand before her .
'There 's enough light for wot I 've got to do . '
'Bill , ' said the girl , in the low voice of alarm , 'why do you look like that at me ! '
The robber sat regarding her , for a few seconds , with dilated nostrils and heaving breast ; and then , grasping her by the head and throat , dragged her into the middle of the room , and looking once towards the door , placed his heavy hand upon her mouth .
gasped the girl , wrestling with the strength of mortal fear , -- ' I -- I wo n't scream or cry -- not once -- hear me -- speak to me -- tell me what I have done ! '
'You know , you she devil ! '
returned the robber , suppressing his breath .
'You were watched to-night ; every word you said was heard . '
'Then spare my life for the love of , as I spared yours , ' rejoined the girl , clinging to him .
'Bill , dear , you can not have the heart to kill me .
think of all I have given up , only this one night , for you .
You _shall_ have time to think , and save yourself this crime ; I will not loose my hold , you can not throw me off .
, , for dear God 's sake , for your own , for mine , stop before you spill my blood !
I have been true to you , upon my guilty soul I have ! '
The man struggled violently , to release his arms ; but those of the girl were clasped round his , and tear her as he would , he could not tear them away .
'Bill , ' cried the girl , striving to lay her head upon his breast , 'the gentleman and that dear lady , told me to-night of a home in some foreign country where I could end my days in solitude and peace .
Let me see them again , and beg them , on my knees , to show the same mercy and goodness to you ; and let us both leave this dreadful place , and far apart lead better lives , and forget how we have lived , except in prayers , and never see each other more .
It is never too late to repent .
They told me so -- I feel it now -- but we must have time -- a little , little time ! '
The housebreaker freed one arm , and grasped his pistol .
The certainty of immediate detection if he fired , flashed across his mind even in the midst of his fury ; and he beat it twice with all the force he could summon , upon the upturned face that almost touched his own .
She staggered and fell : nearly blinded with the blood that rained down from a deep gash in her forehead ; but raising herself , with difficulty , on her knees , drew from her bosom a white handkerchief -- 's own -- and holding it up , in her folded hands , as high towards Heaven as her feeble strength would allow , breathed one prayer for mercy to her Maker .
It was a ghastly figure to look upon .
The murderer staggering backward to the wall , and shutting out the sight with his hand , seized a heavy club and struck her down .
Of all bad deeds that , under cover of the darkness , had been committed within wide 's bounds since night hung over it , that was the worst .
Of all the horrors that rose with an ill scent upon the morning air , that was the foulest and most cruel .
The sun -- the bright sun , that brings back , not light alone , but new life , and hope , and freshness to man -- burst upon the crowded city in clear and radiant glory .
Through costly-coloured glass and paper-mended window , through cathedral dome and rotten crevice , it shed its equal ray .
It lighted up the room where the murdered woman lay .
He tried to shut it out , but it would stream in .
If the sight had been a ghastly one in the dull morning , what was it , now , in all that brilliant light !
He had not moved ; he had been afraid to stir .
There had been a moan and motion of the hand ; and , with terror added to rage , he had struck and struck again .
Once he threw a rug over it ; but it was worse to fancy the eyes , and imagine them moving towards him , than to see them glaring upward , as if watching the reflection of the pool of gore that quivered and danced in the sunlight on the ceiling .
He had plucked it off again .
And there was the body -- mere flesh and blood , no more -- but such flesh , and so much blood !
He struck a light , kindled a fire , and thrust the club into it .
There was hair upon the end , which blazed and shrunk into a light cinder , and , caught by the air , whirled up the chimney .
Even that frightened him , sturdy as he was ; but he held the weapon till it broke , and then piled it on the coals to burn away , and smoulder into ashes .
He washed himself , and rubbed his clothes ; there were spots that would not be removed , but he cut the pieces out , and burnt them .
How those stains were dispersed about the room !
The very feet of the dog were bloody .
All this time he had , never once , turned his back upon the corpse ; no , not for a moment .
Such preparations completed , he moved , backward , towards the door : dragging the dog with him , lest he should soil his feet anew and carry out new evidence of the crime into the streets .
He shut the door softly , locked it , took the key , and left the house .
He crossed over , and glanced up at the window , to be sure that nothing was visible from the outside .
There was the curtain still drawn , which she would have opened to admit the light she never saw again .
It lay nearly under there .
God , how the sun poured down upon the very spot !
It was a relief to have got free of the room .
He whistled on the dog , and walked rapidly away .
He went through ; strode up the hill at on which stands the stone in honour of ; turned down to , unsteady of purpose , and uncertain where to go ; struck off to the right again , almost as soon as he began to descend it ; and taking the foot-path across the fields , skirted , and so came on .
Traversing the hollow by the of , he mounted the opposite bank , and crossing the road which joins the villages of and , made along the remaining portion of the heath to the fields at , in one of which he laid himself down under a hedge , and slept .
Soon he was up again , and away , -- not far into the country , but back towards by the high-road -- then back again -- then over another part of the same ground as he already traversed -- then wandering up and down in fields , and lying on ditches ' brinks to rest , and starting up to make for some other spot , and do the same , and ramble on again .
Where could he go , that was near and not too public , to get some meat and drink ?
That was a good place , not far off , and out of most people 's way .
Thither he directed his steps , -- running sometimes , and sometimes , with a strange perversity , loitering at a snail 's pace , or stopping altogether and idly breaking the hedges with a stick .
But when he got there , all the people he met -- the very children at the doors -- seemed to view him with suspicion .
Back he turned again , without the courage to purchase bit or drop , though he had tasted no food for many hours ; and once more he lingered on the , uncertain where to go .
He wandered over miles and miles of ground , and still came back to the old place .
Morning and noon had passed , and the day was on the wane , and still he rambled to and fro , and up and down , and round and round , and still lingered about the same spot .
At last he got away , and shaped his course for .
It was nine o'clock at night , when the man , quite tired out , and the dog , limping and lame from the unaccustomed exercise , turned down the hill by the church of the quiet village , and plodding along the little street , crept into a small public-house , whose scanty light had guided them to the spot .
There was a fire in the tap-room , and some country-labourers were drinking before it .
They made room for the stranger , but he sat down in the furthest corner , and ate and drank alone , or rather with his dog : to whom he cast a morsel of food from time to time .
The conversation of the men assembled here , turned upon the neighbouring land , and farmers ; and when those topics were exhausted , upon the age of some old man who had been buried on the previous Sunday ; the young men present considering him very old , and the old men present declaring him to have been quite young -- not older , one white-haired grandfather said , than he was -- with ten or fifteen year of life in him at least -- if he had taken care ; if he had taken care .
There was nothing to attract attention , or excite alarm in this .
The robber , after paying his reckoning , sat silent and unnoticed in his corner , and had almost dropped asleep , when he was half wakened by the noisy entrance of a new comer .
This was an antic fellow , half pedlar and half mountebank , who travelled about the country on foot to vend hones , strops , razors , washballs , harness-paste , medicine for dogs and horses , cheap perfumery , cosmetics , and such-like wares , which he carried in a case slung to his back .
His entrance was the signal for various homely jokes with the countrymen , which slackened not until he had made his supper , and opened his box of treasures , when he ingeniously contrived to unite business with amusement .
'And what be that stoof ?
asked a grinning countryman , pointing to some composition-cakes in one corner .
'This , ' said the fellow , producing one , 'this is the infallible and invaluable composition for removing all sorts of stain , rust , dirt , mildew , spick , speck , spot , or spatter , from silk , satin , linen , cambric , cloth , crape , stuff , carpet , merino , muslin , bombazeen , or woollen stuff .
Wine-stains , fruit-stains , beer-stains , water-stains , paint-stains , pitch-stains , any stains , all come out at one rub with the infallible and invaluable composition .
If a lady stains her honour , she has only need to swallow one cake and she 's cured at once -- for it 's poison .
If a gentleman wants to prove this , he has only need to bolt one little square , and he has put it beyond question -- for it 's quite as satisfactory as a pistol-bullet , and a great deal nastier in the flavour , consequently the more credit in taking it .
With all these virtues , one penny a square ! '
There were two buyers directly , and more of the listeners plainly hesitated .
The vendor observing this , increased in loquacity .
'It 's all bought up as fast as it can be made , ' said the fellow .
'There are fourteen water-mills , six steam-engines , and a galvanic battery , always a-working upon it , and they ca n't make it fast enough , though the men work so hard that they die off , and the widows is pensioned directly , with twenty pound a-year for each of the children , and a premium of fifty for twins .
Two half-pence is all the same , and four farthings is received with joy .
Wine-stains , fruit-stains , beer-stains , water-stains , paint-stains , pitch-stains , mud-stains , blood-stains !
Here is a stain upon the hat of a gentleman in company , that I 'll take clean out , before he can order me a pint of ale . '
' I 'll take it clean out , sir , ' replied the man , winking to the company , 'before you can come across the room to get it .
Gentlemen all , observe the dark stain upon this gentleman 's hat , no wider than a shilling , but thicker than a half-crown .
Whether it is a wine-stain , fruit-stain , beer-stain , water-stain , paint-stain , pitch-stain , mud-stain , or blood-stain -- ' The man got no further , for with a hideous imprecation overthrew the table , and tearing the hat from him , burst out of the house .
With the same perversity of feeling and irresolution that had fastened upon him , despite himself , all day , the murderer , finding that he was not followed , and that they most probably considered him some drunken sullen fellow , turned back up the town , and getting out of the glare of the lamps of a stage-coach that was standing in the street , was walking past , when he recognised the mail from , and saw that it was standing at the little post-office .
He almost knew what was to come ; but he crossed over , and listened .
The guard was standing at the door , waiting for the letter-bag .
A man , dressed like a game-keeper , came up at the moment , and he handed him a basket which lay ready on the pavement .
'That 's for your people , ' said the guard .
'Now , look alive in there , will you .
that 'ere bag , it war n't ready night afore last ; this wo n't do , you know ! '
'Anything new up in town , ? '
asked the game-keeper , drawing back to the window-shutters , the better to admire the horses .
'No , nothing that I knows on , ' replied the man , pulling on his gloves .
I heerd talk of a murder , too , down way , but I do n't reckon much upon it . '
'Oh , that 's quite true , ' said a gentleman inside , who was looking out of the window .
'And a dreadful murder it was . '
rejoined the guard , touching his hat .
'Man or woman , pray , sir ? '
' A woman , ' replied the gentleman .
'It is supposed -- ' 'Now , , ' replied the coachman impatiently .
'Damn that 'ere bag , ' said the guard ; 'are you gone to sleep in there ? '
cried the office keeper , running out .
'Ah , and so 's the young 'ooman of property that 's going to take a fancy to me , but I do n't know when .
The horn sounded a few cheerful notes , and the coach was gone .
remained standing in the street , apparently unmoved by what he had just heard , and agitated by no stronger feeling than a doubt where to go .
At length he went back again , and took the road which leads from to .
He went on doggedly ; but as he left the town behind him , and plunged into the solitude and darkness of the road , he felt a dread and awe creeping upon him which shook him to the core .
Every object before him , substance or shadow , still or moving , took the semblance of some fearful thing ; but these fears were nothing compared to the sense that haunted him of that morning 's ghastly figure following at his heels .
He could trace its shadow in the gloom , supply the smallest item of the outline , and note how stiff and solemn it seemed to stalk along .
He could hear its garments rustling in the leaves , and every breath of wind came laden with that last low cry .
If he stopped it did the same .
If he ran , it followed -- not running too : that would have been a relief : but like a corpse endowed with the mere machinery of life , and borne on one slow melancholy wind that never rose or fell .
At times , he turned , with desperate determination , resolved to beat this phantom off , though it should look him dead ; but the hair rose on his head , and his blood stood still , for it had turned with him and was behind him then .
He had kept it before him that morning , but it was behind now -- always .
He leaned his back against a bank , and felt that it stood above him , visibly out against the cold night-sky .
He threw himself upon the road -- on his back upon the road .
At his head it stood , silent , erect , and still -- a living grave-stone , with its epitaph in blood .
Let no man talk of murderers escaping justice , and hint that Providence must sleep .
There were twenty score of violent deaths in one long minute of that agony of fear .
There was a shed in a field he passed , that offered shelter for the night .
Before the door , were three tall poplar trees , which made it very dark within ; and the wind moaned through them with a dismal wail .
He _could not_ walk on , till daylight came again ; and here he stretched himself close to the wall -- to undergo new torture .
For now , a vision came before him , as constant and more terrible than that from which he had escaped .
Those widely staring eyes , so lustreless and so glassy , that he had better borne to see them than think upon them , appeared in the midst of the darkness : light in themselves , but giving light to nothing .
There were but two , but they were everywhere .
If he shut out the sight , there came the room with every well-known object -- some , indeed , that he would have forgotten , if he had gone over its contents from memory -- each in its accustomed place .
The body was in _its_ place , and its eyes were as he saw them when he stole away .
He got up , and rushed into the field without .
The figure was behind him .
He re-entered the shed , and shrunk down once more .
The eyes were there , before he had laid himself along .
And here he remained in such terror as none but he can know , trembling in every limb , and the cold sweat starting from every pore , when suddenly there arose upon the night-wind the noise of distant shouting , and the roar of voices mingled in alarm and wonder .
Any sound of men in that lonely place , even though it conveyed a real cause of alarm , was something to him .
He regained his strength and energy at the prospect of personal danger ; and springing to his feet , rushed into the open air .
The broad sky seemed on fire .
Rising into the air with showers of sparks , and rolling one above the other , were sheets of flame , lighting the atmosphere for miles round , and driving clouds of smoke in the direction where he stood .
The shouts grew louder as new voices swelled the roar , and he could hear the cry of !
mingled with the ringing of an alarm-bell , the fall of heavy bodies , and the crackling of flames as they twined round some new obstacle , and shot aloft as though refreshed by food .
The noise increased as he looked .
There were people there -- men and women -- light , bustle .
It was like new life to him .
He darted onward -- straight , headlong -- dashing through brier and brake , and leaping gate and fence as madly as his dog , who careered with loud and sounding bark before him .
He came upon the spot .
There were half-dressed figures tearing to and fro , some endeavouring to drag the frightened horses from the stables , others driving the cattle from the yard and out-houses , and others coming laden from the burning pile , amidst a shower of falling sparks , and the tumbling down of red-hot beams .
The apertures , where doors and windows stood an hour ago , disclosed a mass of raging fire ; walls rocked and crumbled into the burning well ; the molten lead and iron poured down , white hot , upon the ground .
Women and children shrieked , and men encouraged each other with noisy shouts and cheers .
The clanking of the engine-pumps , and the spirting and hissing of the water as it fell upon the blazing wood , added to the tremendous roar .
He shouted , too , till he was hoarse ; and flying from memory and himself , plunged into the thickest of the throng .
and thither he dived that night : now working at the pumps , and now hurrying through the smoke and flame , but never ceasing to engage himself wherever noise and men were thickest .
and down the ladders , upon the roofs of buildings , over floors that quaked and trembled with his weight , under the lee of falling bricks and stones , in every part of that great fire was he ; but he bore a charmed life , and had neither scratch nor bruise , nor weariness nor thought , till morning dawned again , and only smoke and blackened ruins remained .
This mad excitement over , there returned , with ten-fold force , the dreadful consciousness of his crime .
He looked suspiciously about him , for the men were conversing in groups , and he feared to be the subject of their talk .
The dog obeyed the significant beck of his finger , and they drew off , stealthily , together .
He passed near an engine where some men were seated , and they called to him to share in their refreshment .
He took some bread and meat ; and as he drank a draught of beer , heard the firemen , who were from , talking about the murder .
'He has gone to , they say , ' said one : 'but they 'll have him yet , for the scouts are out , and by to-morrow night there 'll be a cry all through the country . '
He hurried off , and walked till he almost dropped upon the ground ; then lay down in a lane , and had a long , but broken and uneasy sleep .
He wandered on again , irresolute and undecided , and oppressed with the fear of another solitary night .
Suddenly , he took the desperate resolution to going back to .
'There 's somebody to speak to there , at all event , ' he thought .
They 'll never expect to nab me there , after this country scent .
Why ca n't I lie by for a week or so , and , forcing blunt from , get abroad to ?
He acted upon this impulse without delay , and choosing the least frequented roads began his journey back , resolved to lie concealed within a short distance of the metropolis , and , entering it at dusk by a circuitous route , to proceed straight to that part of it which he had fixed on for his destination .
If any description of him were out , it would not be forgotten that the dog was missing , and had probably gone with him .
This might lead to his apprehension as he passed along the streets .
He resolved to drown him , and walked on , looking about for a pond : picking up a heavy stone and tying it to his handkerchief as he went .
The animal looked up into his master 's face while these preparations were making ; whether his instinct apprehended something of their purpose , or the robber 's sidelong look at him was sterner than ordinary , he skulked a little farther in the rear than usual , and cowered as he came more slowly along .
When his master halted at the brink of a pool , and looked round to call him , he stopped outright .
'Do you hear me call ?
The animal came up from the very force of habit ; but as stooped to attach the handkerchief to his throat , he uttered a low growl and started back .
The dog wagged his tail , but moved not .
made a running noose and called him again .
The dog advanced , retreated , paused an instant , and scoured away at his hardest speed .
The man whistled again and again , and sat down and waited in the expectation that he would return .
But no dog appeared , and at length he resumed his journey .
The twilight was beginning to close in , when alighted from a hackney-coach at his own door , and knocked softly .
The door being opened , a sturdy man got out of the coach and stationed himself on one side of the steps , while another man , who had been seated on the box , dismounted too , and stood upon the other side .
At a sign from , they helped out a third man , and taking him between them , hurried him into the house .
They walked in the same manner up the stairs without speaking , and , preceding them , led the way into a back-room .
At the door of this apartment , , who had ascended with evident reluctance , stopped .
The two men looked at the old gentleman as if for instructions .
'He knows the alternative , ' said .
'If he hesitates or moves a finger but as you bid him , drag him into the street , call for the aid of the police , and impeach him as a felon in my name . '
'How dare you say this of me ? '
'How dare you urge me to it , young man ? '
replied , confronting him with a steady look .
'Are you mad enough to leave this house ?
You are free to go , and we to follow .
But I warn you , by all I hold most solemn and most sacred , that instant will have you apprehended on a charge of fraud and robbery .
I am resolute and immoveable .
If you are determined to be the same , your blood be upon your own head ! '
'By what authority am I kidnapped in the street , and brought here by these dogs ? '
asked , looking from one to the other of the men who stood beside him .
'By mine , ' replied .
'Those persons are indemnified by me .
If you complain of being deprived of your liberty -- you had power and opportunity to retrieve it as you came along , but you deemed it advisable to remain quiet -- I say again , throw yourself for protection on the law .
I will appeal to the law too ; but when you have gone too far to recede , do not sue to me for leniency , when the power will have passed into other hands ; and do not say I plunged you down the gulf into which you rushed , yourself . '
was plainly disconcerted , and alarmed besides .
'You will decide quickly , ' said , with perfect firmness and composure .
'If you wish me to prefer my charges publicly , and consign you to a punishment the extent of which , although I can , with a shudder , foresee , I can not control , once more , I say , for you know the way .
If not , and you appeal to my forbearance , and the mercy of those you have deeply injured , seat yourself , without a word , in that chair .
It has waited for you two whole days . '
muttered some unintelligible words , but wavered still .
'You will be prompt , ' said .
' A word from me , and the alternative has gone for ever . '
' I have not the inclination to parley , ' said , , as I advocate the dearest interests of others , I have not the right . '
'Is there -- ' demanded Monks with a faltering tongue , -- 'is there -- no middle course ? '
looked at the old gentleman , with an anxious eye ; but , reading in his countenance nothing but severity and determination , walked into the room , and , shrugging his shoulders , sat down .
'Lock the door on the outside , ' said to the attendants , 'and come when I ring . '
The men obeyed , and the two were left alone together .
'This is pretty treatment , sir , ' said , throwing down his hat and cloak , 'from my father 's oldest friend . '
'It is because I was your father 's oldest friend , young man , ' returned ; 'it is because the hopes and wishes of young and happy years were bound up with him , and that fair creature of his blood and kindred who rejoined her God in youth , and left me here a solitary , lonely man : it is because he knelt with me beside his only sisters 's death-bed when he was yet a boy , on the morning that would -- but willed otherwise -- have made her my young wife ; it is because my seared heart clung to him , from that time forth , through all his trials and errors , till he died ; it is because old recollections and associations filled my heart , and even the sight of you brings with it old thoughts of him ; it is because of all these things that I am moved to treat you gently now -- yes , , even now -- and blush for your unworthiness who bear the name . '
'What has the name to do with it ? '
asked the other , after contemplating , half in silence , and half in dogged wonder , the agitation of his companion .
'What is the name to me ? '
'Nothing , ' replied , 'nothing to you .
But it was _hers_ , and even at this distance of time brings back to me , an old man , the glow and thrill which I once felt , only to hear it repeated by a stranger .
I am very glad you have changed it -- very -- very . '
'This is all mighty fine , ' said ( to retain his assumed designation ) after a long silence , during which he had jerked himself in sullen defiance to and fro , and had sat , shading his face with his hand .
'But what do you want with me ? '
'You have a brother , ' said , rousing himself : ' a brother , the whisper of whose name in your ear when I came behind you in the street , was , in itself , almost enough to make you accompany me hither , in wonder and alarm . '
' I have no brother , ' replied .
'You know I was an only child .
Why do you talk to me of brothers ?
You know that , as well as I . '
'Attend to what I do know , and you may not , ' said .
' I shall interest you by and by .
I know that of the wretched marriage , into which family pride , and the most sordid and narrowest of all ambition , forced your unhappy father when a mere boy , you were the sole and most unnatural issue . '
' I do n't care for hard names , ' interrupted Monks with a jeering laugh .
'You know the fact , and that 's enough for me . '
'But I also know , ' pursued the old gentleman , 'the misery , the slow torture , the protracted anguish of that ill-assorted union .
I know how listlessly and wearily each of that wretched pair dragged on their heavy chain through a world that was poisoned to them both .
I know how cold formalities were succeeded by open taunts ; how indifference gave place to dislike , dislike to hate , and hate to loathing , until at last they wrenched the clanking bond asunder , and retiring a wide space apart , carried each a galling fragment , of which nothing but death could break the rivets , to hide it in new society beneath the gayest looks they could assume .
Your mother succeeded ; she forgot it soon .
But it rusted and cankered at your father 's heart for years . '
'Well , they were separated , ' said , 'and what of that ? '
'When they had been separated for some time , ' returned , 'and your mother , wholly given up to continental frivolities , had utterly forgotten the young husband ten good years her junior , who , with prospects blighted , lingered on at home , he fell among new friends .
This circumstance , at least , you know already . '
'Not I , ' said , turning away his eyes and beating his foot upon the ground , as a man who is determined to deny everything .
'Your manner , no less than your actions , assures me that you have never forgotten it , or ceased to think of it with bitterness , ' returned .
' I speak of fifteen years ago , when you were not more than eleven years old , and your father but one-and-thirty -- for he was , I repeat , a boy , when _his_ father ordered him to marry .
Must I go back to events which cast a shade upon the memory of your parent , or will you spare it , and disclose to me the truth ? '
' I have nothing to disclose , ' rejoined .
'You must talk on if you will . '
'These new friends , then , ' said , 'were a naval officer retired from active service , whose wife had died some half-a-year before , and left him with two children -- there had been more , but , of all their family , happily but two survived .
They were both daughters ; one a beautiful creature of nineteen , and the other a mere child of two or three years old . '
'They resided , ' said , without seeming to hear the interruption , 'in a part of the country to which your father in his wandering had repaired , and where he had taken up his abode .
, intimacy , friendship , fast followed on each other .
Your father was gifted as few men are .
He had his sister 's soul and person .
As the old officer knew him more and more , he grew to love him .
I would that it had ended there .
His daughter did the same . '
The old gentleman paused ; was biting his lips , with his eyes fixed upon the floor ; seeing this , he immediately resumed : 'The end of a year found him contracted , solemnly contracted , to that daughter ; the object of the first , true , ardent , only passion of a guileless girl . '
'Your tale is of the longest , ' observed Monks , moving restlessly in his chair .
'It is a true tale of grief and trial , and sorrow , young man , ' returned , 'and such tales usually are ; if it were one of unmixed joy and happiness , it would be very brief .
At length one of those rich relations to strengthen whose interest and importance your father had been sacrificed , as others are often -- it is no uncommon case -- died , and to repair the misery he had been instrumental in occasioning , left him his panacea for all griefs -- Money .
It was necessary that he should immediately repair to , whither this man had sped for health , and where he had died , leaving his affairs in great confusion .
He went ; was seized with mortal illness there ; was followed , the moment the intelligence reached , by your mother who carried you with her ; he died the day after her arrival , leaving no will -- _no will_ -- so that the whole property fell to her and you . '
At this part of the recital held his breath , and listened with a face of intense eagerness , though his eyes were not directed towards the speaker .
As paused , he changed his position with the air of one who has experienced a sudden relief , and wiped his hot face and hands .
'Before he went abroad , and as he passed through on his way , ' said , slowly , and fixing his eyes upon the other 's face , 'he came to me . '
' I never heard of that , ' interrupted Monks in a tone intended to appear incredulous , but savouring more of disagreeable surprise .
'He came to me , and left with me , among some other things , a picture -- a portrait painted by himself -- a likeness of this poor girl -- which he did not wish to leave behind , and could not carry forward on his hasty journey .
He was worn by anxiety and remorse almost to a shadow ; talked in a wild , distracted way , of ruin and dishonour worked by himself ; confided to me his intention to convert his whole property , at any loss , into money , and , having settled on his wife and you a portion of his recent acquisition , to fly the country -- I guessed too well he would not fly alone -- and never see it more .
Even from me , his old and early friend , whose strong attachment had taken root in the earth that covered one most dear to both -- even from me he withheld any more particular confession , promising to write and tell me all , and after that to see me once again , for the last time on earth .
was the last time .
I had no letter , and I never saw him more . '
' I went , ' said , after a short pause , ' I went , when all was over , to the scene of his -- I will use the term the world would freely use , for worldly harshness or favour are now alike to him -- of his guilty love , resolved that if my fears were realised that erring child should find one heart and home to shelter and compassionate her .
The family had left that part a week before ; they had called in such trifling debts as were outstanding , discharged them , and left the place by night .
Why , or whither , none can tell . '
drew his breath yet more freely , and looked round with a smile of triumph .
'When your brother , ' said , drawing nearer to the other 's chair , 'When your brother : a feeble , ragged , neglected child : was cast in my way by a stronger hand than chance , and rescued by me from a life of vice and infamy -- ' 'What ? '
'By me , ' said .
' I told you I should interest you before long .
I say by me -- I see that your cunning associate suppressed my name , although for ought he knew , it would be quite strange to your ears .
When he was rescued by me , then , and lay recovering from sickness in my house , his strong resemblance to this picture I have spoken of , struck me with astonishment .
Even when I first saw him in all his dirt and misery , there was a lingering expression in his face that came upon me like a glimpse of some old friend flashing on one in a vivid dream .
I need not tell you he was snared away before I knew his history -- ' 'Why not ? '
'Because you know it well . '
'Denial to me is vain , ' replied .
' I shall show you that I know more than that . '
'You -- you -- ca n't prove anything against me , ' stammered Monks .
' I defy you to do it ! '
'We shall see , ' returned the old gentleman with a searching glance .
' I lost the boy , and no efforts of mine could recover him .
Your mother being dead , I knew that you alone could solve the mystery if anybody could , and as when I had last heard of you you were on your own estate in the Indies -- whither , as you well know , you retired upon your mother 's death to escape the consequences of vicious courses here -- I made the voyage .
You had left it , months before , and were supposed to be in , but no one could tell where .
Your agents had no clue to your residence .
You came and went , they said , as strangely as you had ever done : sometimes for days together and sometimes not for months : keeping to all appearance the same low haunts and mingling with the same infamous herd who had been your associates when a fierce ungovernable boy .
I wearied them with new applications .
I paced the streets by night and day , but until two hours ago , all my efforts were fruitless , and I never saw you for an instant . '
'And now you do see me , ' said , rising boldly , 'what then ?
and robbery are high-sounding words -- justified , you think , by a fancied resemblance in some young imp to an idle daub of a dead man 's !
You do n't even know that a child was born of this maudlin pair ; you do n't even know that . '
' I _did not_ , ' replied , rising too ; 'but within the last fortnight I have learnt it all .
You have a brother ; you know it , and him .
There was a will , which your mother destroyed , leaving the secret and the gain to you at her own death .
It contained a reference to some child likely to be the result of this sad connection , which child was born , and accidentally encountered by you , when your suspicions were first awakened by his resemblance to your father .
You repaired to the place of his birth .
There existed proofs -- proofs long suppressed -- of his birth and parentage .
Those proofs were destroyed by you , and now , in your own words to your accomplice the Jew , `` _the only proofs of the boy 's identity lie at the bottom of the river , and the old hag that received them from the mother is rotting in her coffin_ . ''
son , coward , liar , -- you , who hold your councils with thieves and murderers in dark rooms at night , -- you , whose plots and wiles have brought a violent death upon the head of one worth millions such as you , -- you , who from your cradle were gall and bitterness to your own father 's heart , and in whom all evil passions , vice , and profligacy , festered , till they found a vent in a hideous disease which had made your face an index even to your mind -- you , , do you still brave me ! '
returned the coward , overwhelmed by these accumulated charges .
cried the gentleman , 'every word that has passed between you and this detested villain , is known to me .
Shadows on the wall have caught your whispers , and brought them to my ear ; the sight of the persecuted child has turned vice itself , and given it the courage and almost the attributes of virtue .
has been done , to which you were morally if not really a party . '
' I -- I knew nothing of that ; I was going to inquire the truth of the story when you overtook me .
I did n't know the cause .
I thought it was a common quarrel . '
'It was the partial disclosure of your secrets , ' replied .
'Will you disclose the whole ? '
'Set your hand to a statement of truth and facts , and repeat it before witnesses ? '
'Remain quietly here , until such a document is drawn up , and proceed with me to such a place as I may deem most advisable , for the purpose of attesting it ? '
'If you insist upon that , I 'll do that also , ' replied .
'You must do more than that , ' said .
'Make restitution to an innocent and unoffending child , for such he is , although the offspring of a guilty and most miserable love .
You have not forgotten the provisions of the will .
Carry them into execution so far as your brother is concerned , and then go where you please .
In this world you need meet no more . '
While was pacing up and down , meditating with dark and evil looks on this proposal and the possibilities of evading it : torn by his fears on the one hand and his hatred on the other : the door was hurriedly unlocked , and a gentleman ( ) entered the room in violent agitation .
'The man will be taken , ' he cried .
'He will be taken to-night ! '
'Yes , yes , ' replied the other .
'His dog has been seen lurking about some old haunt , and there seems little doubt that his master either is , or will be , there , under cover of the darkness .
Spies are hovering about in every direction .
I have spoken to the men who are charged with his capture , and they tell me he can not escape .
A reward of a hundred pounds is proclaimed by Government to-night . '
' I will give fifty more , ' said , 'and proclaim it with my own lips upon the spot , if I can reach it .
As soon as he had seen your friend here , safe in a coach with you , he hurried off to where he heard this , ' replied the doctor , 'and mounting his horse sallied forth to join the first party at some place in the outskirts agreed upon between them . '
'Fagin , ' said ; 'what of him ? '
'When I last heard , he had not been taken , but he will be , or is , by this time .
'Have you made up your mind ? '
asked , in a low voice , of .
'You -- you -- will be secret with me ? '
here till I return .
It is your only hope of safety . '
They left the room , and the door was again locked .
asked the doctor in a whisper .
'All that I could hope to do , and even more .
Coupling the poor girl 's intelligence with my previous knowledge , and the result of our good friend 's inquiries on the spot , I left him no loophole of escape , and laid bare the whole villainy which by these lights became plain as day .
and appoint the evening after to-morrow , at seven , for the meeting .
We shall be down there , a few hours before , but shall require rest : especially the young lady , who _may_ have greater need of firmness than either you or I can quite foresee just now .
But my blood boils to avenge this poor murdered creature .
way have they taken ? '
'Drive straight to the office and you will be in time , ' replied .
The two gentlemen hastily separated ; each in a fever of excitement wholly uncontrollable .
Near to that part of the on which the church at abuts , where the buildings on the banks are dirtiest and the vessels on the river blackest with the dust of colliers and the smoke of close-built low-roofed houses , there exists the filthiest , the strangest , the most extraordinary of the many localities that are hidden in , wholly unknown , even by name , to the great mass of its inhabitants .
To reach this place , the visitor has to penetrate through a maze of close , narrow , and muddy streets , thronged by the roughest and poorest of waterside people , and devoted to the traffic they may be supposed to occasion .
The cheapest and least delicate provisions are heaped in the shops ; the coarsest and commonest articles of wearing apparel dangle at the salesman 's door , and stream from the house-parapet and windows .
Jostling with unemployed labourers of the lowest class , ballast-heavers , coal-whippers , brazen women , ragged children , and the raff and refuse of the river , he makes his way with difficulty along , assailed by offensive sights and smells from the narrow alleys which branch off on the right and left , and deafened by the clash of ponderous waggons that bear great piles of merchandise from the stacks of warehouses that rise from every corner .
, at length , in streets remoter and less-frequented than those through which he has passed , he walks beneath tottering house-fronts projecting over the pavement , dismantled walls that seem to totter as he passes , chimneys half crushed half hesitating to fall , windows guarded by rusty iron bars that time and dirt have almost eaten away , every imaginable sign of desolation and neglect .
In such a neighborhood , beyond in the Borough of , stands 's , surrounded by a muddy ditch , six or eight feet deep and fifteen or twenty wide when the tide is in , once called , but known in the days of this story as .
It is a creek or inlet from the , and can always be filled at high water by opening the sluices at the from which it took its old name .
At such times , a stranger , looking from one of the wooden bridges thrown across it at , will see the inhabitants of the houses on either side lowering from their back doors and windows , buckets , pails , domestic utensils of all kinds , in which to haul the water up ; and when his eye is turned from these operations to the houses themselves , his utmost astonishment will be excited by the scene before him .
wooden galleries common to the backs of half a dozen houses , with holes from which to look upon the slime beneath ; windows , broken and patched , with poles thrust out , on which to dry the linen that is never there ; rooms so small , so filthy , so confined , that the air would seem too tainted even for the dirt and squalor which they shelter ; wooden chambers thrusting themselves out above the mud , and threatening to fall into it -- as some have done ; dirt-besmeared walls and decaying foundations ; every repulsive lineament of poverty , every loathsome indication of filth , rot , and garbage ; all these ornament the banks of .
In 's , the warehouses are roofless and empty ; the walls are crumbling down ; the windows are windows no more ; the doors are falling into the streets ; the chimneys are blackened , but they yield no smoke .
or forty years ago , before losses and chancery suits came upon it , it was a thriving place ; but now it is a desolate island indeed .
The houses have no owners ; they are broken open , and entered upon by those who have the courage ; and there they live , and there they die .
They must have powerful motives for a secret residence , or be reduced to a destitute condition indeed , who seek a refuge in 's .
In an upper room of one of these houses -- a detached house of fair size , ruinous in other respects , but strongly defended at door and window : of which house the back commanded the ditch in manner already described -- there were assembled three men , who , regarding each other every now and then with looks expressive of perplexity and expectation , sat for some time in profound and gloomy silence .
One of these was , another , and the third a robber of fifty years , whose nose had been almost beaten in , in some old scuffle , and whose face bore a frightful scar which might probably be traced to the same occasion .
This man was a returned transport , and his name was .
' I wish , ' said turning to , 'that you had picked out some other crib when the two old ones got too warm , and had not come here , my fine feller . '
'Well , I thought you 'd have been a little more glad to see me than this , ' replied , with a melancholy air .
'Why , look ' e , young gentleman , ' said , 'when a man keeps himself so very ex-clusive as I have done , and by that means has a snug house over his head with nobody a prying and smelling about it , it 's rather a startling thing to have the honour of a wisit from a young gentleman ( however respectable and pleasant a person he may be to play cards with at conweniency ) circumstanced as you are . '
'Especially , when the exclusive young man has got a friend stopping with him , that 's arrived sooner than was expected from foreign parts , and is too modest to want to be presented to the on his return , ' added .
There was a short silence , after which , seeming to abandon as hopeless any further effort to maintain his usual devil-may-care swagger , turned to and said , 'When was took then ? '
'Just at dinner-time -- two o'clock this afternoon .
and I made our lucky up the wash-us chimney , and got into the empty water-butt , head downwards ; but his legs were so precious long that they stuck out at the top , and so they took him too . '
She went to see the , to speak to who it was , ' replied , his countenance falling more and more , 'and went off mad , screaming and raving , and beating her head against the boards ; so they put a strait-weskut on her and took her to the hospital -- and there she is . '
'Wot 's come of young Bates ? '
'He hung about , not to come over here afore dark , but he 'll be here soon , ' replied .
'There 's nowhere else to go to now , for the people at the Cripples are all in custody , and the bar of the ken -- I went up there and see it with my own eyes -- is filled with traps . '
'This is a smash , ' observed , biting his lips .
'There 's more than one will go with this . '
'The sessions are on , ' said : 'if they get the inquest over , and turns 's evidence : as of course he will , from what he 's said already : they can prove an accessory before the fact , and get the trial on on Friday , and he 'll swing in six days from this , by 'You should have heard the people groan , ' said ; 'the officers fought like devils , or they 'd have torn him away .
He was down once , but they made a ring round him , and fought their way along .
You should have seen how he looked about him , all muddy and bleeding , and clung to them as if they were his dearest friends .
I can see 'em now , not able to stand upright with the pressing of the mob , and draggin him along amongst 'em ; I can see the people jumping up , one behind another , and snarling with their teeth and making at him ; I can see the blood upon his hair and beard , and hear the cries with which the women worked themselves into the centre of the crowd at the street corner , and swore they 'd tear his heart out ! '
The horror-stricken witness of this scene pressed his hands upon his ears , and with his eyes closed got up and paced violently to and fro , like one distracted .
While he was thus engaged , and the two men sat by in silence with their eyes fixed upon the floor , a pattering noise was heard upon the stairs , and 's dog bounded into the room .
They ran to the window , downstairs , and into the street .
The dog had jumped in at an open window ; he made no attempt to follow them , nor was his master to be seen .
'What 's the meaning of this ? '
said when they had returned .
'He ca n't be coming here .
'If he was coming here , he 'd have come with the dog , ' said , stooping down to examine the animal , who lay panting on the floor .
Give us some water for him ; he has run himself faint . '
'He 's drunk it all up , every drop , ' said Chitling after watching the dog some time in silence .
'Covered with mud -- lame -- half blind -- he must have come a long way . '
'Where can he have come from ! '
'He 's been to the other kens of course , and finding them filled with strangers come on here , where he 's been many a time and often .
But where can he have come from first , and how comes he here alone without the other ! '
'He ' -- ( none of them called the murderer by his old name ) -- 'He ca n't have made away with himself .
'If he had , ' said , 'the dog 'ud want to lead us away to where he did it .
I think he 's got out of the country , and left the dog behind .
He must have given him the slip somehow , or he would n't be so easy . '
This solution , appearing the most probable one , was adopted as the right ; the dog , creeping under a chair , coiled himself up to sleep , without more notice from anybody .
It being now dark , the shutter was closed , and a candle lighted and placed upon the table .
The terrible events of the last two days had made a deep impression on all three , increased by the danger and uncertainty of their own position .
They drew their chairs closer together , starting at every sound .
They spoke little , and that in whispers , and were as silent and awe-stricken as if the remains of the murdered woman lay in the next room .
They had sat thus , some time , when suddenly was heard a hurried knocking at the door below .
'Young Bates , ' said , looking angrily round , to check the fear he felt himself .
He never knocked like that .
went to the window , and shaking all over , drew in his head .
There was no need to tell them who it was ; his pale face was enough .
The dog too was on the alert in an instant , and ran whining to the door .
'We must let him in , ' he said , taking up the candle .
'Is n't there any help for it ? '
asked the other man in a hoarse voice .
'Do n't leave us in the dark , ' said , taking down a candle from the chimney-piece , and lighting it , with such a trembling hand that the knocking was twice repeated before he had finished .
went down to the door , and returned followed by a man with the lower part of his face buried in a handkerchief , and another tied over his head under his hat .
He drew them slowly off .
face , sunken eyes , hollow cheeks , beard of three days ' growth , wasted flesh , short thick breath ; it was the very ghost of .
He laid his hand upon a chair which stood in the middle of the room , but shuddering as he was about to drop into it , and seeming to glance over his shoulder , dragged it back close to the wall -- as close as it would go -- and ground it against it -- and sat down .
Not a word had been exchanged .
He looked from one to another in silence .
If an eye were furtively raised and met his , it was instantly averted .
When his hollow voice broke silence , they all three started .
They seemed never to have heard its tones before .
'How came that dog here ? '
'To-night 's paper says that 's took .
Is it true , or a lie ? '
said , passing his hand across his forehead .
'Have you nothing to say to me ? '
There was an uneasy movement among them , but nobody spoke .
'You that keep this house , ' said , turning his face to , 'do you mean to sell me , or to let me lie here till this hunt is over ? '
'You may stop here , if you think it safe , ' returned the person addressed , after some hesitation .
carried his eyes slowly up the wall behind him : rather trying to turn his head than actually doing it : and said , 'Is -- it -- the body -- is it buried ? '
he retorted with the same glance behind him .
'Wot do they keep such ugly things above the ground for ? -- Who 's that knocking ? '
intimated , by a motion of his hand as he left the room , that there was nothing to fear ; and directly came back with behind him .
sat opposite the door , so that the moment the boy entered the room he encountered his figure .
'Toby , ' said the boy falling back , as turned his eyes towards him , 'why did n't you tell me this , downstairs ? '
There had been something so tremendous in the shrinking off of the three , that the wretched man was willing to propitiate even this lad .
Accordingly he nodded , and made as though he would shake hands with him .
'Let me go into some other room , ' said the boy , retreating still farther .
'Do n't you -- do n't you know me ? '
'Do n't come nearer me , ' answered the boy , still retreating , and looking , with horror in his eyes , upon the murderer 's face .
The man stopped half-way , and they looked at each other ; but 's eyes sunk gradually to the ground .
'Witness you three , ' cried the boy shaking his clenched fist , and becoming more and more excited as he spoke .
'Witness you three -- I 'm not afraid of him -- if they come here after him , I 'll give him up ; I will .
I tell you out at once .
He may kill me for it if he likes , or if he dares , but if I am here I 'll give him up .
I 'd give him up if he was to be boiled alive .
If there 's the pluck of a man among you three , you 'll help me .
Pouring out these cries , and accompanying them with violent gesticulation , the boy actually threw himself , single-handed , upon the strong man , and in the intensity of his energy and the suddenness of his surprise , brought him heavily to the ground .
The three spectators seemed quite stupefied .
They offered no interference , and the boy and man rolled on the ground together ; the former , heedless of the blows that showered upon him , wrenching his hands tighter and tighter in the garments about the murderer 's breast , and never ceasing to call for help with all his might .
The contest , however , was too unequal to last long .
had him down , and his knee was on his throat , when pulled him back with a look of alarm , and pointed to the window .
There were lights gleaming below , voices in loud and earnest conversation , the tramp of hurried footsteps -- endless they seemed in number -- crossing the nearest wooden bridge .
One man on horseback seemed to be among the crowd ; for there was the noise of hoofs rattling on the uneven pavement .
The gleam of lights increased ; the footsteps came more thickly and noisily on .
Then , came a loud knocking at the door , and then a hoarse murmur from such a multitude of angry voices as would have made the boldest quail .
shrieked the boy in a voice that rent the air .
'In the King 's name , ' cried the voices without ; and the hoarse cry arose again , but louder .
' I tell you they 'll never open it .
straight to the room where the light is .
Strokes , thick and heavy , rattled upon the door and lower window-shutters as he ceased to speak , and a loud huzzah burst from the crowd ; giving the listener , for the first time , some adequate idea of its immense extent .
'Open the door of some place where I can lock this screeching Hell-babe , ' cried fiercely ; running to and fro , and dragging the boy , now , as easily as if he were an empty sack .
He flung him in , bolted it , and turned the key .
'Is the downstairs door fast ? '
'Double-locked and chained , ' replied , who , with the other two men , still remained quite helpless and bewildered .
cried the desperate ruffian , throwing up the sash and menacing the crowd .
Of all the terrific yells that ever fell on mortal ears , none could exceed the cry of the infuriated throng .
Some shouted to those who were nearest to set the house on fire ; others roared to the officers to shoot him dead .
Among them all , none showed such fury as the man on horseback , who , throwing himself out of the saddle , and bursting through the crowd as if he were parting water , cried , beneath the window , in a voice that rose above all others , 'Twenty guineas to the man who brings a ladder ! '
The nearest voices took up the cry , and hundreds echoed it .
Some called for ladders , some for sledge-hammers ; some ran with torches to and fro as if to seek them , and still came back and roared again ; some spent their breath in impotent curses and execrations ; some pressed forward with the ecstasy of madmen , and thus impeded the progress of those below ; some among the boldest attempted to climb up by the water-spout and crevices in the wall ; and all waved to and fro , in the darkness beneath , like a field of corn moved by an angry wind : and joined from time to time in one loud furious roar .
'The tide , ' cried the murderer , as he staggered back into the room , and shut the faces out , 'the tide was in as I came up .
Give me a rope , a long rope .
I may drop into the , and clear off that way .
Give me a rope , or I shall do three more murders and kill myself . '
The panic-stricken men pointed to where such articles were kept ; the murderer , hastily selecting the longest and strongest cord , hurried up to the house-top .
All the window in the rear of the house had been long ago bricked up , except one small trap in the room where the boy was locked , and that was too small even for the passage of his body .
But , from this aperture , he had never ceased to call on those without , to guard the back ; and thus , when the murderer emerged at last on the house-top by the door in the roof , a loud shout proclaimed the fact to those in front , who immediately began to pour round , pressing upon each other in an unbroken stream .
He planted a board , which he had carried up with him for the purpose , so firmly against the door that it must be matter of great difficulty to open it from the inside ; and creeping over the tiles , looked over the low parapet .
The water was out , and the ditch a bed of mud .
The crowd had been hushed during these few moments , watching his motions and doubtful of his purpose , but the instant they perceived it and knew it was defeated , they raised a cry of triumphant execration to which all their previous shouting had been whispers .
Again and again it rose .
Those who were at too great a distance to know its meaning , took up the sound ; it echoed and re-echoed ; it seemed as though the whole city had poured its population out to curse him .
On pressed the people from the front -- on , on , on , in a strong struggling current of angry faces , with here and there a glaring torch to lighten them up , and show them out in all their wrath and passion .
The houses on the opposite side of the ditch had been entered by the mob ; sashes were thrown up , or torn bodily out ; there were tiers and tiers of faces in every window ; cluster upon cluster of people clinging to every house-top .
Each little bridge ( and there were three in sight ) bent beneath the weight of the crowd upon it .
Still the current poured on to find some nook or hole from which to vent their shouts , and only for an instant see the wretch .
'They have him now , ' cried a man on the nearest bridge .
The crowd grew light with uncovered heads ; and again the shout uprose .
' I will give fifty pounds , ' cried an old gentleman from the same quarter , 'to the man who takes him alive .
I will remain here , till he come to ask me for it . '
At this moment the word was passed among the crowd that the door was forced at last , and that he who had first called for the ladder had mounted into the room .
The stream abruptly turned , as this intelligence ran from mouth to mouth ; and the people at the windows , seeing those upon the bridges pouring back , quitted their stations , and running into the street , joined the concourse that now thronged pell-mell to the spot they had left : each man crushing and striving with his neighbor , and all panting with impatience to get near the door , and look upon the criminal as the officers brought him out .
The cries and shrieks of those who were pressed almost to suffocation , or trampled down and trodden under foot in the confusion , were dreadful ; the narrow ways were completely blocked up ; and at this time , between the rush of some to regain the space in front of the house , and the unavailing struggles of others to extricate themselves from the mass , the immediate attention was distracted from the murderer , although the universal eagerness for his capture was , if possible , increased .
The man had shrunk down , thoroughly quelled by the ferocity of the crowd , and the impossibility of escape ; but seeing this sudden change with no less rapidity than it had occurred , he sprang upon his feet , determined to make one last effort for his life by dropping into the ditch , and , at the risk of being stifled , endeavouring to creep away in the darkness and confusion .
Roused into new strength and energy , and stimulated by the noise within the house which announced that an entrance had really been effected , he set his foot against the stack of chimneys , fastened one end of the rope tightly and firmly round it , and with the other made a strong running noose by the aid of his hands and teeth almost in a second .
He could let himself down by the cord to within a less distance of the ground than his own height , and had his knife ready in his hand to cut it then and drop .
At the very instant when he brought the loop over his head previous to slipping it beneath his arm-pits , and when the old gentleman before-mentioned ( who had clung so tight to the railing of the bridge as to resist the force of the crowd , and retain his position ) earnestly warned those about him that the man was about to lower himself down -- at that very instant the murderer , looking behind him on the roof , threw his arms above his head , and uttered a yell of terror .
he cried in an unearthly screech .
Staggering as if struck by lightning , he lost his balance and tumbled over the parapet .
The noose was on his neck .
It ran up with his weight , tight as a bow-string , and swift as the arrow it speeds .
He fell for five-and-thirty feet .
There was a sudden jerk , a terrific convulsion of the limbs ; and there he hung , with the open knife clenched in his stiffening hand .
The old chimney quivered with the shock , but stood it bravely .
The murderer swung lifeless against the wall ; and the boy , thrusting aside the dangling body which obscured his view , called to the people to come and take him out , for 's sake .
A dog , which had lain concealed till now , ran backwards and forwards on the parapet with a dismal howl , and collecting himself for a spring , jumped for the dead man 's shoulders .
Missing his aim , he fell into the ditch , turning completely over as he went ; and striking his head against a stone , dashed out his brains .
The events narrated in the last chapter were yet but two days old , when found himself , at three o'clock in the afternoon , in a travelling-carriage rolling fast towards his native town .
Mrs. Maylie , and , and Mrs. Bedwin , and the good doctor were with him : and followed in a post-chaise , accompanied by one other person whose name had not been mentioned .
They had not talked much upon the way ; for was in a flutter of agitation and uncertainty which deprived him of the power of collecting his thoughts , and almost of speech , and appeared to have scarcely less effect on his companions , who shared it , in at least an equal degree .
He and the two ladies had been very carefully made acquainted by with the nature of the admissions which had been forced from ; and although they knew that the object of their present journey was to complete the work which had been so well begun , still the whole matter was enveloped in enough of doubt and mystery to leave them in endurance of the most intense suspense .
The same kind friend had , with 's assistance , cautiously stopped all channels of communication through which they could receive intelligence of the dreadful occurrences that so recently taken place .
'It was quite true , ' he said , 'that they must know them before long , but it might be at a better time than the present , and it could not be at a worse . '
So , they travelled on in silence : each busied with reflections on the object which had brought them together : and no one disposed to give utterance to the thoughts which crowded upon all .
But if , under these influences , had remained silent while they journeyed towards his birth-place by a road he had never seen , how the whole current of his recollections ran back to old times , and what a crowd of emotions were wakened up in his breast , when they turned into that which he had traversed on foot : a poor houseless , wandering boy , without a friend to help him , or a roof to shelter his head .
cried , eagerly clasping the hand of , and pointing out at the carriage window ; 'that 's the stile I came over ; there are the hedges I crept behind , for fear any one should overtake me and force me back !
is the path across the fields , leading to the old house where I was a little child !
Oh , , my dear old friend , if I could only see you now ! '
'You will see him soon , ' replied , gently taking his folded hands between her own .
'You shall tell him how happy you are , and how rich you have grown , and that in all your happiness you have none so great as the coming back to make him happy too . '
'Yes , yes , ' said , 'and we 'll -- we 'll take him away from here , and have him clothed and taught , and send him to some quiet country place where he may grow strong and well , -- shall we ? '
nodded 'yes , ' for the boy was smiling through such happy tears that she could not speak .
'You will be kind and good to him , for you are to every one , ' said .
'It will make you cry , I know , to hear what he can tell ; but never mind , never mind , it will be all over , and you will smile again -- I know that too -- to think how changed he is ; you did the same with me .
He said `` God bless you '' to me when I ran away , ' cried the boy with a burst of affectionate emotion ; 'and I will say `` God bless you '' now , and show him how I love him for it ! '
As they approached the town , and at length drove through its narrow streets , it became matter of no small difficulty to restrain the boy within reasonable bounds .
There was 's the undertaker 's just as it used to be , only smaller and less imposing in appearance than he remembered it -- there were all the well-known shops and houses , with almost every one of which he had some slight incident connected -- there was 's cart , the very cart he used to have , standing at the old public-house door -- there was the workhouse , the dreary prison of his youthful days , with its dismal windows frowning on the street -- there was the same lean porter standing at the gate , at sight of whom involuntarily shrunk back , and then laughed at himself for being so foolish , then cried , then laughed again -- there were scores of faces at the doors and windows that he knew quite well -- there was nearly everything as if he had left it but yesterday , and all his recent life had been but a happy dream .
But it was pure , earnest , joyful reality .
They drove straight to the door of the chief hotel ( which used to stare up at , with awe , and think a mighty palace , but which had somehow fallen off in grandeur and size ) ; and here was all ready to receive them , kissing the young lady , and the old one too , when they got out of the coach , as if he were the grandfather of the whole party , all smiles and kindness , and not offering to eat his head -- no , not once ; not even when he contradicted a very old postboy about the nearest road to , and maintained he knew it best , though he had only come that way once , and that time fast asleep .
There was dinner prepared , and there were bedrooms ready , and everything was arranged as if by magic .
Notwithstanding all this , when the hurry of the first half-hour was over , the same silence and constraint prevailed that had marked their journey down .
did not join them at dinner , but remained in a separate room .
The two other gentlemen hurried in and out with anxious faces , and , during the short intervals when they were present , conversed apart .
Once , Mrs. Maylie was called away , and after being absent for nearly an hour , returned with eyes swollen with weeping .
All these things made and , who were not in any new secrets , nervous and uncomfortable .
They sat wondering , in silence ; or , if they exchanged a few words , spoke in whispers , as if they were afraid to hear the sound of their own voices .
At length , when nine o'clock had come , and they began to think they were to hear no more that night , and entered the room , followed by and a man whom almost shrieked with surprise to see ; for they told him it was his brother , and it was the same man he had met at the market-town , and seen looking in with at the window of his little room .
cast a look of hate , which , even then , he could not dissemble , at the astonished boy , and sat down near the door .
, who had papers in his hand , walked to a table near which and were seated .
'This is a painful task , ' said he , 'but these declarations , which have been signed in before many gentlemen , must be in substance repeated here .
I would have spared you the degradation , but we must hear them from your own lips before we part , and you know why . '
'Go on , ' said the person addressed , turning away his face .
I have almost done enough , I think .
'This child , ' said , drawing to him , and laying his hand upon his head , 'is your half-brother ; the illegitimate son of your father , my dear friend , by poor young , who died in giving him birth . '
'Yes , ' said , scowling at the trembling boy : the beating of whose heart he might have heard .
'That is the bastard child . '
'The term you use , ' said , sternly , 'is a reproach to those long since passed beyond the feeble censure of the world .
It reflects disgrace on no one living , except you who use it .
He was born in this town . '
'In the workhouse of this town , ' was the sullen reply .
'You have the story there . '
He pointed impatiently to the papers as he spoke .
' I must have it here , too , ' said , looking round upon the listeners .
'His father being taken ill at , was joined by his wife , my mother , from whom he had been long separated , who went from and took me with her -- to look after his property , for what I know , for she had no great affection for him , nor he for her .
He knew nothing of us , for his senses were gone , and he slumbered on till next day , when he died .
Among the papers in his desk , were two , dated on the night his illness first came on , directed to yourself ' ; he addressed himself to ; 'and enclosed in a few short lines to you , with an intimation on the cover of the package that it was not to be forwarded till after he was dead .
One of these papers was a letter to this girl ; the other a will . '
'The letter ? -- A sheet of paper crossed and crossed again , with a penitent confession , and prayers to God to help her .
He had palmed a tale on the girl that some secret mystery -- to be explained one day -- prevented his marrying her just then ; and so she had gone on , trusting patiently to him , until she trusted too far , and lost what none could ever give her back .
She was , at that time , within a few months of her confinement .
He told her all he had meant to do , to hide her shame , if he had lived , and prayed her , if he died , not to curse his memory , or think the consequences of their sin would be visited on her or their young child ; for all the guilt was his .
He reminded her of the day he had given her the little locket and the ring with her christian name engraved upon it , and a blank left for that which he hoped one day to have bestowed upon her -- prayed her yet to keep it , and wear it next her heart , as she had done before -- and then ran on , wildly , in the same words , over and over again , as if he had gone distracted .
'The will , ' said , as 's tears fell fast .
'The will , ' said , speaking for him , 'was in the same spirit as the letter .
He talked of miseries which his wife had brought upon him ; of the rebellious disposition , vice , malice , and premature bad passions of you his only son , who had been trained to hate him ; and left you , and your mother , each an annuity of eight hundred pounds .
The bulk of his property he divided into two equal portions -- one for , and the other for their child , if it should be born alive , and ever come of age .
If it were a girl , it was to inherit the money unconditionally ; but if a boy , only on the stipulation that in his minority he should never have stained his name with any public act of dishonour , meanness , cowardice , or wrong .
He did this , he said , to mark his confidence in the other , and his conviction -- only strengthened by approaching death -- that the child would share her gentle heart , and noble nature .
If he were disappointed in this expectation , then the money was to come to you : for then , and not till then , when both children were equal , would he recognise your prior claim upon his purse , who had none upon his heart , but had , from an infant , repulsed him with coldness and aversion . '
'My mother , ' said , in a louder tone , 'did what a woman should have done .
The letter never reached its destination ; but that , and other proofs , she kept , in case they ever tried to lie away the blot .
The girl 's father had the truth from her with every aggravation that her violent hate -- I love her for it now -- could add .
Goaded by shame and dishonour he fled with his children into a remote corner of , changing his very name that his friends might never know of his retreat ; and here , no great while afterwards , he was found dead in his bed .
The girl had left her home , in secret , some weeks before ; he had searched for her , on foot , in every town and village near ; it was on the night when he returned home , assured that she had destroyed herself , to hide her shame and his , that his old heart broke . '
There was a short silence here , until took up the thread of the narrative .
'Years after this , ' he said , 'this man 's -- 's -- mother came to me .
He had left her , when only eighteen ; robbed her of jewels and money ; gambled , squandered , forged , and fled to : where for two years he had associated with the lowest outcasts .
She was sinking under a painful and incurable disease , and wished to recover him before she died .
Inquiries were set on foot , and strict searches made .
They were unavailing for a long time , but ultimately successful ; and he went back with her to . '
'There she died , ' said , 'after a lingering illness ; and , on her death-bed , she bequeathed these secrets to me , together with her unquenchable and deadly hatred of all whom they involved -- though she need not have left me that , for I had inherited it long before .
She would not believe that the girl had destroyed herself , and the child too , but was filled with the impression that a male child had been born , and was alive .
I swore to her , if ever it crossed my path , to hunt it down ; never to let it rest ; to pursue it with the bitterest and most unrelenting animosity ; to vent upon it the hatred that I deeply felt , and to spit upon the empty vaunt of that insulting will by draggin it , if I could , to the very gallows-foot .
He came in my way at last .
I began well ; and , but for babbling drabs , I would have finished as I began ! '
As the villain folded his arms tight together , and muttered curses on himself in the impotence of baffled malice , turned to the terrified group beside him , and explained that the Jew , who had been his old accomplice and confidant , had a large reward for keeping ensnared : of which some part was to be given up , in the event of his being rescued : and that a dispute on this head had led to their visit to the country house for the purpose of identifying him .
said , turning to .
' I bought them from the man and woman I told you of , who stole them from the nurse , who stole them from the corpse , ' answered Monks without raising his eyes .
'You know what became of them . '
merely nodded to , who disappearing with great alacrity , shortly returned , pushing in Mrs. Bumble , and dragging her unwilling consort after him .
'Do my hi 's deceive me ! '
cried , with ill-feigned enthusiasm , 'or is that little Oliver ?
Oh O-li-ver , if you know 'd how I 've been a-grieving for you -- ' 'Hold your tongue , fool , ' murmured Mrs. Bumble .
'Ca n't I be supposed to feel -- _I_ as brought him up porochially -- when I see him a-setting here among ladies and gentlemen of the very affablest description !
I always loved that boy as if he 'd been my -- my -- my own grandfather , ' said , halting for an appropriate comparison .
'Master , my dear , you remember the blessed gentleman in the white waistcoat ?
he went to heaven last week , in a oak coffin with plated handles , . '
'Come , sir , ' said , tartly ; 'suppress your feelings . '
' I will do my endeavours , sir , ' replied .
'How do you do , sir ?
I hope you are very well . '
This salutation was addressed to , who had stepped up to within a short distance of the respectable couple .
He inquired , as he pointed to , 'Do you know that person ? '
'No , ' replied Mrs. Bumble flatly .
said , addressing her spouse .
' I never saw him in all my life , ' said .
'Nor sold him anything , perhaps ? '
'You never had , perhaps , a certain gold locket and ring ? '
'Certainly not , ' replied the matron .
'Why are we brought here to answer to such nonsense as this ? '
Again nodded to ; and again that gentleman limped away with extraordinary readiness .
But not again did he return with a stout man and wife ; for this time , he led in two palsied women , who shook and tottered as they walked .
'You shut the door the night old died , ' said the foremost one , raising her shrivelled hand , 'but you could n't shut out the sound , nor stop the chinks . '
'No , no , ' said the other , looking round her and wagging her toothless jaws .
'We heard her try to tell you what she 'd done , and saw you take a paper from her hand , and watched you too , next day , to the pawnbroker 's shop , ' said the first .
'Yes , ' added the second , 'and it was a `` locket and gold ring . ''
We found out that , and saw it given you .
'And we know more than that , ' resumed the first , 'for she told us often , long ago , that the young mother had told her that , feeling she should never get over it , she was on her way , at the time that she was taken ill , to die near the grave of the father of the child . '
'Would you like to see the pawnbroker himself ? '
asked with a motion towards the door .
'No , ' replied the woman ; 'if he ' -- she pointed to -- 'has been coward enough to confess , as I see he has , and you have sounded all these hags till you have found the right ones , I have nothing more to say .
I _did_ sell them , and they 're where you 'll never get them .
'Nothing , ' replied , 'except that it remains for us to take care that neither of you is employed in a situation of trust again .
You may leave the room . '
' I hope , ' said , looking about him with great ruefulness , as disappeared with the two old women : ' I hope that this unfortunate little circumstance will not deprive me of my porochial office ? '
'Indeed it will , ' replied .
'You may make up your mind to that , and think yourself well off besides . '
'It was all Mrs. Bumble .
She _would_ do it , ' urged ; first looking round to ascertain that his partner had left the room .
'That is no excuse , ' replied .
'You were present on the occasion of the destruction of these trinkets , and indeed are the more guilty of the two , in the eye of the law ; for the law supposes that your wife acts under your direction . '
'If the law supposes that , ' said , squeezing his hat emphatically in both hands , 'the law is a ass -- a idiot .
If that 's the eye of the law , the law is a bachelor ; and the worst I wish the law is , that his eye may be opened by experience -- by experience . '
Laying great stress on the repetition of these two words , fixed his hat on very tight , and putting his hands in his pockets , followed his helpmate downstairs .
'Young lady , ' said , turning to , 'give me your hand .
You need not fear to hear the few remaining words we have to say . '
'If they have -- I do not know how they can , but if they have -- any reference to me , ' said , 'pray let me hear them at some other time .
I have not strength or spirits now . '
'Nay , ' returned the old gentlman , drawing her arm through his ; 'you have more fortitude than this , I am sure .
Do you know this young lady , sir ? '
' I never saw you before , ' said faintly .
' I have seen you often , ' returned .
'The father of the unhappy had _two_ daughters , ' said .
'What was the fate of the other -- the child ? '
'The child , ' replied , 'when her father died in a strange place , in a strange name , without a letter , book , or scrap of paper that yielded the faintest clue by which his friends or relatives could be traced -- the child was taken by some wretched cottagers , who reared it as their own . '
'Go on , ' said , signing to Mrs. Maylie to approach .
'You could n't find the spot to which these people had repaired , ' said , 'but where friendship fails , hatred will often force a way .
My mother found it , after a year of cunning search -- ay , and found the child . '
'She took it , did she ? '
The people were poor and began to sicken -- at least the man did -- of their fine humanity ; so she left it with them , giving them a small present of money which would not last long , and promised more , which she never meant to send .
She did n't quite rely , however , on their discontent and poverty for the child 's unhappiness , but told the history of the sister 's shame , with such alterations as suited her ; bade them take good heed of the child , for she came of bad blood ; and told them she was illegitimate , and sure to go wrong at one time or other .
The circumstances countenanced all this ; the people believed it ; and there the child dragged on an existence , miserable enough even to satisfy us , until a widow lady , residing , then , at , saw the girl by chance , pitied her , and took her home .
There was some cursed spell , I think , against us ; for in spite of all our efforts she remained there and was happy .
I lost sight of her , two or three years ago , and saw her no more until a few months back . '
'Do you see her now ? '
'But not the less my niece , ' cried Mrs. Maylie , folding the fainting girl in her arms ; 'not the less my dearest child .
I would not lose her now , for all the treasures of the world .
My sweet companion , my own dear girl ! '
'The only friend I ever had , ' cried , clinging to her .
'The kindest , best of friends .
I can not bear all this . '
'You have borne more , and have been , through all , the best and gentlest creature that ever shed happiness on every one she knew , ' said Mrs. Maylie , embracing her tenderly .
'Come , come , my love , remember who this is who waits to clasp you in his arms , poor child !
See here -- look , look , my dear ! '
'Not aunt , ' cried , throwing his arms about her neck ; ' I 'll never call her aunt -- sister , my own dear sister , that something taught my heart to love so dearly from the first !
Let the tears which fell , and the broken words which were exchanged in the long close embrace between the orphans , be sacred .
A father , sister , and mother , were gained , and lost , in that one moment .
and grief were mingled in the cup ; but there were no bitter tears : for even grief itself arose so softened , and clothed in such sweet and tender recollections , that it became a solemn pleasure , and lost all character of pain .
They were a long , long time alone .
A soft tap at the door , at length announced that some one was without .
Oliver opened it , glided away , and gave place to .
' I know it all , ' he said , taking a seat beside the lovely girl .
'Dear , I know it all . '
' I am not here by accident , ' he added after a lengthened silence ; 'nor have I heard all this to-night , for I knew it yesterday -- only yesterday .
Do you guess that I have come to remind you of a promise ? '
You gave me leave , at any time within a year , to renew the subject of our last discourse . '
'Not to press you to alter your determination , ' pursued the young man , 'but to hear you repeat it , if you would .
I was to lay whatever of station or fortune I might possess at your feet , and if you still adhered to your former determination , I pledged myself , by no word or act , to seek to change it . '
'The same reasons which influenced me then , will influence me now , ' said firmly .
'If I ever owed a strict and rigid duty to her , whose goodness saved me from a life of indigence and suffering , when should I ever feel it , as I should to-night ?
It is a struggle , ' said , 'but one I am proud to make ; it is a pang , but one my heart shall bear . '
'The disclosure of to-night , ' -- began .
'The disclosure of to-night , ' replied softly , 'leaves me in the same position , with reference to you , as that in which I stood before . '
'You harden your heart against me , , ' urged her lover .
'Oh , , ' said the young lady , bursting into tears ; ' I wish I could , and spare myself this pain . '
'Then why inflict it on yourself ? '
said , taking her hand .
'Think , dear , think what you have heard to-night . '
'And what have I heard !
'That a sense of his deep disgrace so worked upon my own father that he shunned all -- there , we have said enough , , we have said enough . '
'Not yet , not yet , ' said the young man , detaining her as she rose .
'My hopes , my wishes , prospects , feeling : every thought in life except my love for you : have undergone a change .
I offer you , now , no distinction among a bustling crowd ; no mingling with a world of malice and detraction , where the blood is called into honest cheeks by aught but real disgrace and shame ; but a home -- a heart and home -- yes , dearest , and those , and those alone , are all I have to offer . '
' I mean but this -- that when I left you last , I left you with a firm determination to level all fancied barriers between yourself and me ; resolved that if my world could not be yours , I would make yours mine ; that no pride of birth should curl the lip at you , for I would turn from it .
Those who have shrunk from me because of this , have shrunk from you , and proved you so far right .
Such power and patronage : such relatives of influence and rank : as smiled upon me then , look coldly now ; but there are smiling fields and waving trees in 's richest county ; and by one village church -- mine , , my own ! -- there stands a rustic dwelling which you can make me prouder of , than all the hopes I have renounced , measured a thousandfold .
This is my rank and station now , and here I lay it down ! '
* * * * * 'It 's a trying thing waiting supper for lovers , ' said , waking up , and pulling his pocket-handkerchief from over his head .
to tell , the supper had been waiting a most unreasonable time .
Mrs. Maylie , nor , nor ( who all came in together ) , could offer a word in extenuation .
' I had serious thoughts of eating my head to-night , ' said , 'for I began to think I should get nothing else .
I 'll take the liberty , if you 'll allow me , of saluting the bride that is to be . '
lost no time in carrying this notice into effect upon the blushing girl ; and the example , being contagious , was followed both by the doctor and : some people affirm that had been observed to set it , originally , in a dark room adjoining ; but the best authorities consider this downright scandal : he being young and a clergyman .
'Oliver , my child , ' said Mrs. Maylie , 'where have you been , and why do you look so sad ?
There are tears stealing down your face at this moment .
It is a world of disappointment : often to the hopes we most cherish , and hopes that do our nature the greatest honour .
The court was paved , from floor to roof , with human faces .
and eager eyes peered from every inch of space .
From the rail before the dock , away into the sharpest angle of the smallest corner in the galleries , all looks were fixed upon one man -- Fagin .
Before him and behind : above , below , on the right and on the left : he seemed to stand surrounded by a firmament , all bright with gleaming eyes .
He stood there , in all this glare of living light , with one hand resting on the wooden slab before him , the other held to his ear , and his head thrust forward to enable him to catch with greater distinctness every word that fell from the presiding judge , who was delivering his charge to the jury .
At times , he turned his eyes sharply upon them to observe the effect of the slightest featherweight in his favour ; and when the points against him were stated with terrible distinctness , looked towards his counsel , in mute appeal that he would , even then , urge something in his behalf .
Beyond these manifestations of anxiety , he stirred not hand or foot .
He had scarcely moved since the trial began ; and now that the judge ceased to speak , he still remained in the same strained attitude of close attention , with his gaze bent on him , as though he listened still .
A slight bustle in the court , recalled him to himself .
Looking round , he saw that the juryman had turned together , to consider their verdict .
As his eyes wandered to the gallery , he could see the people rising above each other to see his face : some hastily applying their glasses to their eyes : and others whispering their neighbours with looks expressive of abhorrence .
A few there were , who seemed unmindful of him , and looked only to the jury , in impatient wonder how they could delay .
But in no one face -- not even among the women , of whom there were many there -- could he read the faintest sympathy with himself , or any feeling but one of all-absorbing interest that he should be condemned .
As he saw all this in one bewildered glance , the deathlike stillness came again , and looking back he saw that the jurymen had turned towards the judge .
They only sought permission to retire .
He looked , wistfully , into their faces , one by one when they passed out , as though to see which way the greater number leant ; but that was fruitless .
The jailer touched him on the shoulder .
He followed mechanically to the end of the dock , and sat down on a chair .
The man pointed it out , or he would not have seen it .
He looked up into the gallery again .
Some of the people were eating , and some fanning themselves with handkerchiefs ; for the crowded place was very hot .
There was one young man sketching his face in a little note-book .
He wondered whether it was like , and looked on when the artist broke his pencil-point , and made another with his knife , as any idle spectator might have done .
In the same way , when he turned his eyes towards the judge , his mind began to busy itself with the fashion of his dress , and what it cost , and how he put it on .
There was an old fat gentleman on the bench , too , who had gone out , some half an hour before , and now come back .
He wondered within himself whether this man had been to get his dinner , what he had had , and where he had had it ; and pursued this train of careless thought until some new object caught his eye and roused another .
Not that , all this time , his mind was , for an instant , free from one oppressive overwhelming sense of the grave that opened at his feet ; it was ever present to him , but in a vague and general way , and he could not fix his thoughts upon it .
Thus , even while he trembled , and turned burning hot at the idea of speedy death , he fell to counting the iron spikes before him , and wondering how the head of one had been broken off , and whether they would mend it , or leave it as it was .
Then , he thought of all the horrors of the gallows and the scaffold -- and stopped to watch a man sprinkling the floor to cool it -- and then went on to think again .
At length there was a cry of silence , and a breathless look from all towards the door .
The jury returned , and passed him close .
He could glean nothing from their faces ; they might as well have been of stone .
stillness ensued -- not a rustle -- not a breath -- Guilty .
The building rang with a tremendous shout , and another , and another , and then it echoed loud groans , that gathered strength as they swelled out , like angry thunder .
It was a peal of joy from the populace outside , greeting the news that he would die on Monday .
The noise subsided , and he was asked if he had anything to say why sentence of death should not be passed upon him .
He had resumed his listening attitude , and looked intently at his questioner while the demand was made ; but it was twice repeated before he seemed to hear it , and then he only muttered that he was an old man -- an old man -- and so , dropping into a whisper , was silent again .
The judge assumed the black cap , and the prisoner still stood with the same air and gesture .
A woman in the gallery , uttered some exclamation , called forth by this dread solemnity ; he looked hastily up as if angry at the interruption , and bent forward yet more attentively .
The address was solemn and impressive ; the sentence fearful to hear .
But he stood , like a marble figure , without the motion of a nerve .
His haggard face was still thrust forward , his under-jaw hanging down , and his eyes staring out before him , when the jailer put his hand upon his arm , and beckoned him away .
He gazed stupidly about him for an instant , and obeyed .
They led him through a paved room under the court , where some prisoners were waiting till their turns came , and others were talking to their friends , who crowded round a grate which looked into the open yard .
There was nobody there to speak to _him_ ; but , as he passed , the prisoners fell back to render him more visible to the people who were clinging to the bars : and they assailed him with opprobrious names , and screeched and hissed .
He shook his fist , and would have spat upon them ; but his conductors hurried him on , through a gloomy passage lighted by a few dim lamps , into the interior of the prison .
Here , he was searched , that he might not have about him the means of anticipating the law ; this ceremony performed , they led him to one of the condemned cells , and left him there -- alone .
He sat down on a stone bench opposite the door , which served for seat and bedstead ; and casting his blood-shot eyes upon the ground , tried to collect his thoughts .
After awhile , he began to remember a few disjointed fragments of what the judge had said : though it had seemed to him , at the time , that he could not hear a word .
These gradually fell into their proper places , and by degrees suggested more : so that in a little time he had the whole , almost as it was delivered .
To be hanged by the neck , till he was dead -- that was the end .
To be hanged by the neck till he was dead .
As it came on very dark , he began to think of all the men he had known who had died upon the scaffold ; some of them through his means .
They rose up , in such quick succession , that he could hardly count them .
He had seen some of them die , -- and had joked too , because they died with prayers upon their lips .
With what a rattling noise the drop went down ; and how suddenly they changed , from strong and vigorous men to dangling heaps of clothes !
Some of them might have inhabited that very cell -- sat upon that very spot .
It was very dark ; why did n't they bring a light ?
The cell had been built for many years .
Scores of men must have passed their last hours there .
It was like sitting in a vault strewn with dead bodies -- the cap , the noose , the pinioned arms , the faces that he knew , even beneath that hideous veil. -- , light !
At length , when his hands were raw with beating against the heavy door and walls , two men appeared : one bearing a candle , which he thrust into an iron candlestick fixed against the wall : the other dragging in a mattress on which to pass the night ; for the prisoner was to be left alone no more .
Then came the night -- dark , dismal , silent night .
Other watchers are glad to hear this church-clock strike , for they tell of life and coming day .
To him they brought despair .
The boom of every iron bell came laden with the one , deep , hollow sound -- Death .
What availed the noise and bustle of cheerful morning , which penetrated even there , to him ?
It was another form of knell , with mockery added to the warning .
There was no day ; it was gone as soon as come -- and night came on again ; night so long , and yet so short ; long in its dreadful silence , and short in its fleeting hours .
At one time he raved and blasphemed ; and at another howled and tore his hair .
Venerable men of his own persuasion had come to pray beside him , but he had driven them away with curses .
They renewed their charitable efforts , and he beat them off .
He had only one night more to live .
And as he thought of this , the day broke -- Sunday .
It was not until the night of this last awful day , that a withering sense of his helpless , desperate state came in its full intensity upon his blighted soul ; not that he had ever held any defined or positive hope of mercy , but that he had never been able to consider more than the dim probability of dying so soon .
He had spoken little to either of the two men , who relieved each other in their attendance upon him ; and they , for their parts , made no effort to rouse his attention .
He had sat there , awake , but dreaming .
Now , he started up , every minute , and with gasping mouth and burning skin , hurried to and fro , in such a paroxysm of fear and wrath that even they -- used to such sights -- recoiled from him with horror .
He grew so terrible , at last , in all the tortures of his evil conscience , that one man could not bear to sit there , eyeing him alone ; and so the two kept watch together .
He cowered down upon his stone bed , and thought of the past .
He had been wounded with some missiles from the crowd on the day of his capture , and his head was bandaged with a linen cloth .
His red hair hung down upon his bloodless face ; his beard was torn , and twisted into knots ; his eyes shone with a terrible light ; his unwashed flesh crackled with the fever that burnt him up .
If it was not a trick to frighten him , and those were the real hours treading on each other 's heels , where would he be , when they came round again !
Another struck , before the voice of the previous hour had ceased to vibrate .
At eight , he would be the only mourner in his own funeral train ; at eleven -- Those dreadful walls of , which have hidden so much misery and such unspeakable anguish , not only from the eyes , but , too often , and too long , from the thoughts , of men , never held so dread a spectacle as that .
The few who lingered as they passed , and wondered what the man was doing who was to be hanged to-morrow , would have slept but ill that night , if they could have seen him .
From early in the evening until nearly midnight , little groups of two and three presented themselves at the lodge-gate , and inquired , with anxious faces , whether any reprieve had been received .
These being answered in the negative , communicated the welcome intelligence to clusters in the street , who pointed out to one another the door from which he must come out , and showed where the scaffold would be built , and , walking with unwilling steps away , turned back to conjure up the scene .
By degrees they fell off , one by one ; and , for an hour , in the dead of night , the street was left to solitude and darkness .
The space before the prison was cleared , and a few strong barriers , painted black , had been already thrown across the road to break the pressure of the expected crowd , when and appeared at the wicket , and presented an order of admission to the prisoner , signed by one of the sheriffs .
They were immediately admitted into the lodge .
'Is the young gentleman to come too , sir ? '
said the man whose duty it was to conduct them .
'It 's not a sight for children , sir . '
'It is not indeed , my friend , ' rejoined ; 'but my business with this man is intimately connected with him ; and as this child has seen him in the full career of his success and villainy , I think it as well -- even at the cost of some pain and fear -- that he should see him now . '
These few words had been said apart , so as to be inaudible to .
The man touched his hat ; and glancing at with some curiousity , opened another gate , opposite to that by which they had entered , and led them on , through dark and winding ways , towards the cells .
'This , ' said the man , stopping in a gloomy passage where a couple of workmen were making some preparations in profound silence -- 'this is the place he passes through .
If you step this way , you can see the door he goes out at . '
He led them into a stone kitchen , fitted with coppers for dressing the prison food , and pointed to a door .
There was an open grating above it , through which came the sound of men 's voices , mingled with the noise of hammering , and the throwing down of boards .
They were putting up the scaffold .
From this place , they passed through several strong gates , opened by other turnkeys from the inner side ; and , having entered an open yard , ascended a flight of narrow steps , and came into a passage with a row of strong doors on the left hand .
Motioning them to remain where they were , the turnkey knocked at one of these with his bunch of keys .
The two attendants , after a little whispering , came out into the passage , stretching themselves as if glad of the temporary relief , and motioned the visitors to follow the jailer into the cell .
The condemned criminal was seated on his bed , rocking himself from side to side , with a countenance more like that of a snared beast than the face of a man .
His mind was evidently wandering to his old life , for he continued to mutter , without appearing conscious of their presence otherwise than as a part of his vision .
'Good boy , -- well done -- ' he mumbled .
too -- quite the gentleman now -- quite the -- take that boy away to bed ! '
The jailer took the disengaged hand of ; and , whispering him not to be alarmed , looked on without speaking .
'Take him away to bed ! '
'Do you hear me , some of you ?
He has been the -- the -- somehow the cause of all this .
It 's worth the money to bring him up to it -- 's throat , ; never mind the girl -- 's throat as deep as you can cut .
cried the Jew , falling instantly , into the attitude of listening he had assumed upon his trial .
'An old man , my ; a very old , old man ! '
'Here , ' said the turnkey , laying his hand upon his breast to keep him down .
'Here 's somebody wants to see you , to ask you some questions , I suppose .
' I sha n't be one long , ' he replied , looking up with a face retaining no human expression but rage and terror .
What right have they to butcher me ? '
As he spoke he caught sight of and .
Shrinking to the furthest corner of the seat , he demanded to know what they wanted there .
'Steady , ' said the turnkey , still holding him down .
'Now , sir , tell him what you want .
, if you please , for he grows worse as the time gets on . '
'You have some papers , ' said advancing , 'which were placed in your hands , for better security , by a man called . '
'It 's all a lie together , ' replied .
'For the love of , ' said solemnly , 'do not say that now , upon the very verge of death ; but tell me where they are .
You know that is dead ; that has confessed ; that there is no hope of any further gain .
'Oliver , ' cried , beckoning to him .
Let me whisper to you . '
' I am not afraid , ' said in a low voice , as he relinquished 's hand .
'The papers , ' said , drawing towards him , 'are in a canvas bag , in a hole a little way up the chimney in the top front-room .
I want to talk to you , my dear .
I want to talk to you . '
'Let me say a prayer .
Let me say one prayer .
Say only one , upon your knees , with me , and we will talk till morning . '
'Outside , outside , ' replied , pushing the boy before him towards the door , and looking vacantly over his head .
'Say I 've gone to sleep -- they 'll believe you .
You can get me out , if you take me so .
God forgive this wretched man ! '
cried the boy with a burst of tears .
'That 's right , that 's right , ' said .
If I shake and tremble , as we pass the gallows , do n't you mind , but hurry on .
'Have you nothing else to ask him , sir ? '
'No other question , ' replied .
'If I hoped we could recall him to a sense of his position -- ' 'Nothing will do that , sir , ' replied the man , shaking his head .
'You had better leave him . '
The door of the cell opened , and the attendants returned .
'Press on , press on , ' cried .
'Softly , but not so slow .
The men laid hands upon him , and disengaging Oliver from his grasp , held him back .
He struggled with the power of desperation , for an instant ; and then sent up cry upon cry that penetrated even those massive walls , and rang in their ears until they reached the open yard .
It was some time before they left the prison .
Oliver nearly swooned after this frightful scene , and was so weak that for an hour or more , he had not the strength to walk .
Day was dawning when they again emerged .
A great multitude had already assembled ; the windows were filled with people , smoking and playing cards to beguile the time ; the crowd were pushing , quarrelling , joking .
Everything told of life and animation , but one dark cluster of objects in the centre of all -- the black stage , the cross-beam , the rope , and all the hideous apparatus of death .
The fortunes of those who have figured in this tale are nearly closed .
The little that remains to their historian to relate , is told in few and simple words .
Before three months had passed , and were married in the village church which was henceforth to be the scene of the young clergyman 's labours ; on the same day they entered into possession of their new and happy home .
Mrs. Maylie took up her abode with her son and daughter-in-law , to enjoy , during the tranquil remainder of her days , the greatest felicity that age and worth can know -- the contemplation of the happiness of those on whom the warmest affections and tenderest cares of a well-spent life , have been unceasingly bestowed .
It appeared , on full and careful investigation , that if the wreck of property remaining in the custody of ( which had never prospered either in his hands or in those of his mother ) were equally divided between himself and , it would yield , to each , little more than three thousand pounds .
By the provisions of his father 's will , would have been entitled to the whole ; but , unwilling to deprive the elder son of the opportunity of retrieving his former vices and pursuing an honest career , proposed this mode of distribution , to which his young charge joyfully acceded .
Monks , still bearing that assumed name , retired with his portion to a distant part of the ; where , having quickly squandered it , he once more fell into his old courses , and , after undergoing a long confinement for some fresh act of fraud and knavery , at length sunk under an attack of his old disorder , and died in prison .
As far from home , died the chief remaining members of his friend 's gang .
adopted as his son .
Removing with him and the old housekeeper to within a mile of the , where his dear friends resided , he gratified the only remaining wish of 's warm and earnest heart , and thus linked together a little society , whose condition approached as nearly to one of perfect happiness as can ever be known in this changing world .
Soon after the marriage of the young people , the worthy doctor returned to , where , bereft of the presence of his old friends , he would have been discontented if his temperament had admitted of such a feeling ; and would have turned quite peevish if he had known how .
For two or three months , he contented himself with hinting that he feared the air began to disagree with him ; then , finding that the place really no longer was , to him , what it had been , he settled his business on his assistant , took a bachelor 's cottage outside the village of which his young friend was pastor , and instantaneously recovered .
Here he took to gardening , planting , fishing , carpentering , and various other pursuits of a similar kind : all undertaken with his characteristic impetuosity .
In each and all he has since become famous throughout the neighborhood , as a most profound authority .
Before his removal , he had managed to contract a strong friendship for , which that eccentric gentleman cordially reciprocated .
He is accordingly visited by a great many times in the course of the year .
On all such occasions , plants , fishes , and carpenters , with great ardour ; doing everything in a very singular and unprecedented manner , but always maintaining with his favourite asseveration , that his mode is the right one .
On , he never fails to criticise the sermon to the young clergyman 's face : always informing , in strict confidence afterwards , that he considers it an excellent performance , but deems it as well not to say so .
It is a standing and very favourite joke , for to rally him on his old prophecy concerning , and to remind him of the night on which they sat with the watch between them , waiting his return ; but contends that he was right in the main , and , in proof thereof , remarks that did not come back after all ; which always calls forth a laugh on his side , and increases his good humour .
Claypole : receiving a free pardon from the in consequence of being admitted approver against : and considering his profession not altogether as safe a one as he could wish : was , for some little time , at a loss for the means of a livelihood , not burdened with too much work .
After some consideration , he went into business as an informer , in which calling he realises a genteel subsistence .
His plan is , to walk out once a week during church time attended by in respectable attire .
The lady faints away at the doors of charitable publicans , and the gentleman being accommodated with three-penny worth of brandy to restore her , lays an information next day , and pockets half the penalty .
Sometimes faints himself , but the result is the same .
and Mrs. Bumble , deprived of their situations , were gradually reduced to great indigence and misery , and finally became paupers in that very same workhouse in which they had once lorded it over others .
has been heard to say , that in this reverse and degradation , he has not even spirits to be thankful for being separated from his wife .
As to and , they still remain in their old posts , although the former is bald , and the last-named boy quite grey .
They sleep at the parsonage , but divide their attentions so equally among its inmates , and and , and , that to this day the villagers have never been able to discover to which establishment they properly belong .
, appalled by 's crime , fell into a train of reflection whether an honest life was not , after all , the best .
Arriving at the conclusion that it certainly was , he turned his back upon the scenes of the past , resolved to amend it in some new sphere of action .
He struggled hard , and suffered much , for some time ; but , having a contented disposition , and a good purpose , succeeded in the end ; and , from being a farmer 's drudge , and a carrier 's lad , he is now the merriest young grazier in all Northamptonshire .
And now , the hand that traces these words , falters , as it approaches the conclusion of its task ; and would weave , for a little longer space , the thread of these adventures .
I would fain linger yet with a few of those among whom I have so long moved , and share their happiness by endeavouring to depict it .
I would show in all the bloom and grace of early womanhood , shedding on her secluded path in life soft and gentle light , that fell on all who trod it with her , and shone into their hearts .
I would paint her the life and joy of the fire-side circle and the lively summer group ; I would follow her through the sultry fields at noon , and hear the low tones of her sweet voice in the moonlit evening walk ; I would watch her in all her goodness and charity abroad , and the smiling untiring discharge of domestic duties at home ; I would paint her and her dead sister 's child happy in their love for one another , and passing whole hours together in picturing the friends whom they had so sadly lost ; I would summon before me , once again , those joyous little faces that clustered round her knee , and listen to their merry prattle ; I would recall the tones of that clear laugh , and conjure up the sympathising tear that glistened in the soft blue eye .
These , and a thousand looks and smiles , and turns of thought and speech -- I would fain recall them every one .
How went on , from day to day , filling the mind of his adopted child with stores of knowledge , and becoming attached to him , more and more , as his nature developed itself , and showed the thriving seeds of all he wished him to become -- how he traced in him new traits of his early friend , that awakened in his own bosom old remembrances , melancholy and yet sweet and soothing -- how the two orphans , tried by adversity , remembered its lessons in mercy to others , and mutual love , and fervent thanks to Him who had protected and preserved them -- these are all matters which need not to be told .
I have said that they were truly happy ; and without strong affection and humanity of heart , and gratitude to that Being whose code is , and whose great attribute is to all things that breathe , happiness can never be attained .
Within the altar of the old village church there stands a white marble tablet , which bears as yet but one word : 'AGNES . '
There is no coffin in that tomb ; and may it be many , many years , before another name is placed above it !
But , if the spirits of the Dead ever come back to earth , to visit spots hallowed by the love -- the love beyond the grave -- of those whom they knew in life , I believe that the shade of sometimes hovers round that solemn nook .
I believe it none the less because that nook is in a , and she was weak and erring .
End of the EBook of , by
