0	The most complete editions are still in copyright in the .
0	Oh, The Tired Hedonists, of course.
0	I want to make Romeo jealous.
0	The little cup that is made to hold so much can hold so much and no more, though all the purple vats of Burgundy be filled with wine to the brim, and the treaders stand knee-deep in the gathered grapes of the stony vineyards of Spain.
0	It is wider, larger, more human than a woman’s.
0	Even the Thebaid became peopled at last.
0	Margaret, as far as I have known Mrs. Erlynne— LADY WINDERMERE.
0	she is not modern, and to be modern is the only thing worth being nowadays.
0	"Never marry a woman with straw-coloured hair, Dorian," he said after a few puffs.
0	the fact is, I would like to be christened myself, this afternoon, if you have nothing better to do.
0	He is not like other men.
0	She has not touched the tambour frame for nine or ten years.
0	However, I don't mind hard work where there is no definite object of any kind.
0	Then the Hail stopped dancing over his head, and the North Wind ceased roaring, and a delicious perfume came to him through the open casement.
0	It would have been terrible if any cloud had come across a friendship like ours, would it not?
0	"An eternity, she tells me.
0	"That is the reason, I suppose, that you never dine with me now.
0	For the last three months?
0	Did Mr. Hopper definitely— DUCHESS OF BERWICK.
0	It is like a plastered wall where vipers have crawled; like a plastered wall where the scorpions have made their nest.
0	What I want you to do is merely what you have often done before.
0	"You are quite incorrigible, Harry; but I don't mind.
0	And at sunset he sat him down and began to weep, and as he was weeping there came to him the little Hare that he had rescued from the trap.
0	I have more storms than the wind has, for I serve one who is stronger than the wind, and with a sieve and a pail of water I can send the great galleys to the bottom of the sea.
0	"I am quite sure I shall understand it," he replied, gazing intently at the little golden, white-feathered disk, "and as for believing things, I can believe anything, provided that it is quite incredible."
0	"Yes, I am glad now.
0	You should hear what the Archdeacon says of her.
0	"You shall see it yourself, to-night!"
0	Campbell took a chair by the table, and Dorian sat opposite to him.
0	"Tell her Grace that I am coming in," he said, coldly.
0	There were flowers, too, in the forest, not so splendid, perhaps, as the flowers in the garden, but more sweetly scented for all that; hyacinths in early spring that flooded with waving purple the cool glens, and grassy knolls; yellow primroses that nestled in little clumps round the gnarled roots of the oak-trees; bright celandine, and blue speedwell, and irises lilac and gold.
0	During the last ten years his painting had gone off very much."
0	I have chosen my own life.
0	She was the loveliest thing I had ever seen in my life.
0	On the 5th of July he was brought up at the Old Bailey.
0	Yet he felt he could not stay.
0	The æsthetic critic, and the æsthetic critic alone, can appreciate all forms and modes.
0	Finally he stammered, in a stifled voice, "Harry, did you say an inquest?
0	He struck at the horse madly with his stick.
0	Those who read the symbol do so at their peril.
0	I would but look at this strange prophet.
0	When he entered, a young man with smooth yellow hair, who was bending over a lamp lighting a long thin pipe, looked up at him and nodded in a hesitating manner.
0	When he had been away, he had been filled with terror lest other eyes should look upon it.
0	There was something in the clear, pine-scented air of that winter morning that seemed to bring him back his joyousness and his ardour for life.
0	"What do they say of us?"
0	Yes, Basil could have saved him.
0	They knocked, but there was no reply.
0	"He thinks he's got red ants on him," laughed one of them, as Dorian passed by.
0	It seems to be mine.
0	She sang of the nautilus who has a boat of her own that is carved out of an opal and steered with a silken sail; of the happy Mermen who play upon harps and can charm the great Kraken to sleep; of the little children who catch hold of the slippery porpoises and ride laughing upon their backs; of the Mermaids who lie in the white foam and hold out their arms to the mariners; and of the sea-lions with their curved tusks, and the sea-horses with their floating manes.
0	His flesh must be cool like ivory.
0	But then no artist expects grace from the vulgar mind, or style from the suburban intellect.
0	You fill me with horror—with absolute horror.
0	My stay in England really depends on you, Sir Robert.
0	They shall blossom like the lily.
0	It is of the King of Cappadocia that he speaks; the King of Cappadocia, who is mine enemy.
0	No, father, I am not married.
0	I think your frankness does you great credit, Ernest.
0	"I have no desire to help you.
0	_The music in the ball-room stops_.]
0	_But intensely admired by the few_, _and deeply respected by the many_.
0	He had not painted it.
0	She has let her matches fall in the gutter, and they are all spoiled.
0	There is not a second to be lost.
0	If it wasn't for Bunbury's extraordinary bad health, for instance, I wouldn't be able to dine with you at Willis's to- night, for I have been really engaged to Aunt Augusta for more than a week.
0	But I shouldn’t like you at all if I thought you were what most other men are.
0	It sounds a fascinating theory," she murmured, as she swept out of the room.
0	That is the important thing.
0	It is Criticism that leads us.
0	[_They move towards the door leading into garden with their arms round each other’s waists_.
0	‘It is thy soul and not mine.
0	"If he were not, there would be no battle."
0	Across the windows hung thin curtains of muslin embroidered with beetles’ wings and with tiny seed-pearls, and as it passed by a pale-faced Circassian looked out and smiled at me.
0	‘At twilight the Tartars returned, but five of them were missing, and of those that came back not a few had been wounded.
0	See that thou bringest the white gold, or it shall go ill with thee, for thou art my slave, and I have bought thee for the price of a bowl of sweet wine.’  And he bound the eyes of the Star-Child with the scarf of figured silk, and led him through the house, and through the garden of poppies, and up the five steps of brass.
0	When Tommy wants to be romantic he talks to one just like a doctor.
0	I’m a little over thirty.
0	"There goes the devil's bargain!"
0	He took it up, as he had done on that night of horror when he had first noted the change in the fatal picture, and with wild, tear-dimmed eyes looked into its polished shield.
0	Oh, there she is:  [LADY AGATHA _and_ MR. HOPPER _enter from terrace L.U.E._]  Mr. Hopper, I am very, very angry with you.
0	The Stoics are coarse people.
0	Have you been in the Park?
0	A useful thing a fan, isn’t it?
0	"You must have something to do with it.
0	[_Picks it up and hands it to her_.]
0	The conversation in no way turned upon ghosts, so there were not even those primary conditions of receptive expectations which so often precede the presentation of psychical phenomena.
0	[_Leaning back on the sofa and looking at him_.]
0	‘When he heard the name of the false prophet, he bowed and took me by the hand, and placed me by his side.
0	Whether it was the realism of the method, or the mere wonder of your own personality, thus directly presented to me without mist or veil, I cannot tell.
0	As the shadow of a rose in a mirror of silver, as the shadow of a rose in a water-pool, so was the rose that blossomed on the topmost spray of the Tree.
0	But Venice, like Oxford, had kept the background for romance, and, to the true romantic, background was everything, or almost everything.
0	Well-known integrity of character .
0	He had never done that.
0	How lucky you mentioned it!
0	"Yes, sir," answered the gamekeeper.
0	_Drawing-room in Lord Windermere’s               house_.
0	The late Mr. Thomas Cardew, an old gentleman of a very charitable and kindly disposition, found me, and gave me the name of Worthing, because he happened to have a first-class ticket for Worthing in his pocket at the time.
0	That the desire to do good to others produces a plentiful crop of prigs is the least of the evils of which it is the cause.
0	Thy mouth is like a branch of coral that fishers have found in the twilight of the sea, the coral that they keep for the kings!...
0	They speak of one who is in prison as of one who is 'in trouble' simply.
0	I want to escape, to go away, to forget.
0	You young scoundrel, Algy, you must get out of this place as soon as possible.
0	[Algernon is rather taken aback.]
0	I am a ship without a rudder in a night without a star.
0	They have been through the fire, and what fire does not destroy, it hardens.
0	The lodging-house drudge bustled in and out.
0	Your daughter is going to dance for me.
0	Oligarchies are unjust to the many, and ochlocracies are unjust to the few.
0	It was the man's own fault.
0	Isn’t that your aunt, Lady Jedburgh?
0	If you want to gain a reputation for respectability, you have merely to take them down to supper.
0	"You dear old Jim, you talk as if you were a hundred.
0	Of all the rooms this was the brightest and the most beautiful.
0	Peradventure it was but the shadow of God that he saw.
0	Seriousness would be very unbecoming to him.
0	[Looks at her in amazement.]
0	[Jack and Gwendolen go off.]
0	Well, I will tell you, if you solemnly promise to tell everybody else.
0	It is usually discerned, if discerned at all, by the historian, or the critic, long after both the man and his age have passed away.
0	I had drawn you as Paris in dainty armour, and as Adonis with huntsman's cloak and polished boar-spear.
0	To expect the unexpected shows a thoroughly modern intellect.
0	The boy was tossing feverishly on his bed, and the mother had fallen asleep, she was so tired.
0	She spoke of me as her dearest friend.
0	Well, I must say it is most annoying to lose anything.
0	Who, again, cares whether Mr. Pater has put into the portrait of Monna Lisa something that Lionardo never dreamed of?
0	I never have any appetite unless I have a buttonhole first.
0	His good looks are really quite remarkable; everybody notices them."
0	It was certainly a magnificent display.
0	"Narborough wasn't perfect," cried the old lady.
0	You like your art better than your friends.
0	Messages of sympathy reached me from all who had still affection for me.
0	Between two of the windows stood a large Florentine cabinet, made out of ebony and inlaid with ivory and blue lapis.
0	[LORD GORING, _unseen by_ SIR ROBERT CHILTERN, _makes an imploring sign to_ LADY CHILTERN _to accept the situation and_ SIR ROBERT’S _error_.]
0	He disbelieves in everything, including himself, and yet his doubt helps him not, as it comes not from scepticism but from a divided will.
0	To realise the nineteenth century, one must realise every century that has preceded it and that has contributed to its making.
0	It is not selfish to think for oneself.
0	If a man is sufficiently unimaginative to produce evidence in support of a lie, he might just as well speak the truth at once.
0	Their camels were picketed behind them, and the negroes who were their servants were pitching tents of tanned skin upon the sand, and making a high wall of the prickly pear.
0	Command them to be silent.
0	It is simply disgraceful of your servant hiding my work like that.
0	as he passed through the gate of the city, the guards bowed down and made obeisance to him, saying, ‘How beautiful is our lord!’ and a crowd of citizens followed him, and cried out, ‘Surely there is none so beautiful in the whole world!’ so that the Star-Child wept, and said to himself, ‘They are mocking me, and making light of my misery.’  And so large was the concourse of the people, that he lost the threads of his way, and found himself at last in a great square, in which there was a palace of a King.
0	I remember it when I laugh.
0	It may, of course, be said that the public do not notice these things; upon the other hand, it should be remembered that Art has no other aim but her own perfection, and proceeds simply by her own laws, and that the play which Hamlet describes as being caviare to the general is a play he highly praises.
0	"None of the chaps will speak to me now."
0	What is it to me whether she dance or not?
0	I told him that it was absurd--that I knew you thoroughly and that you were incapable of anything of the kind.
0	You talk sentimentally, and you are thoroughly selfish the whole time.
0	He gave me everything I wanted, including your best gold-tipped cigarettes.
0	Art is a passion, and, in matters of art, Thought is inevitably coloured by emotion, and so is fluid rather than fixed, and, depending upon fine moods and exquisite moments, cannot be narrowed into the rigidity of a scientific formula or a theological dogma.
0	It certainly was a dreadfully hard frost.
0	Right in front of him was standing a horrible spectre, motionless as a carven image, and monstrous as a madman's dream!
0	You put yourself up to sale to the highest bidder!
0	Never having seen a ghost before, he naturally was terribly frightened, and, after a second hasty glance at the awful phantom, he fled back to his room, tripping up in his long winding-sheet as he sped down the corridor, and finally dropping the rusty dagger into the Minister's jack-boots, where it was found in the morning by the butler.
0	It appeared to Dorian to have but little changed.
0	I may mention that I have always suspected you of being a confirmed and secret Bunburyist; and I am quite sure of it now.
0	[_Moves slowly away to back of stage_.]
0	| The whole thing flashed across him.
0	Now you don't even stir my curiosity.
0	We forgive adoration; that is quite as much as should be expected from us.
0	It is Criticism, as I hope to point out myself some day, that makes the mind a fine instrument.
0	"Because you have the most marvellous youth, and youth is the one thing worth having."
0	Sir Simon survived her nine years, and disappeared suddenly under very mysterious circumstances.
0	With subtle and finely wrought temperaments it is always so.
0	And you, Tigellinus, who were at Rome during the winter, you heard nothing concerning this matter, did you?
0	They had been going over the prisons of London, searching for artistic effects, and in Newgate they suddenly caught sight of Wainewright.
0	The trial, however, did not come on for five years, when, after one disagreement, a verdict was ultimately given in the companies’ favour.
0	He pictured to himself with silent amusement the tedious luncheon that he had missed by staying so long with Basil Hallward.
0	I believe my house is somewhere about here, but I don't feel at all certain about it.
0	My past was ever with me.
0	Bring me ripe fruits [_fruits are brought_].
0	And now I have a few questions to put to you, Mr. Worthing.
0	Won’t you carry the fan, Lord Augustus?
0	It is because Humanity has never known where it was going that it has been able to find its way.
0	[Jack looks perfectly furious, but restrains himself.]
0	You would not believe that you were doing anything wrong.
0	Five hundred men are, in consequence, thrown out of employment, and, having no work to do, become hungry and take to thieving.
0	I do not know it.’ And the Priest beat his breast, and answered, ‘Alack, alack, thou art mad, or hast eaten of some poisonous herb, for the soul is the noblest part of man, and was given to us by God that we should nobly use it.
0	Sympathy with consumption does not cure consumption; that is what Science does.
0	There was a ring on my right hand.
0	How clear, and vivid, and cruel!
0	He rushed out as if in pursuit.
0	Don’t you _want_ the world to take you seriously then, Lord Darlington?
0	This is not quite so.
0	She should be here soon.
0	Everybody can see that.’ “‘How well you talk!’ said the Miller’s Wife, pouring herself out a large glass of warm ale; ‘really I feel quite drowsy.
0	"But do let us go.
0	Emotional forces, as I say somewhere in _Intentions_, are as limited in extent and duration as the forces of physical energy.
0	I mean, of course, you are continually christening, aren't you?
0	He settles my flowers for me sometimes--that is all.
0	Surely you don't think it was a vulgar accident?
0	He writes passionate, curiously-coloured things.
0	"What a fuss people make about fidelity!"
0	"God has forgiven him," said Virginia, gravely, as she rose to her feet, and a beautiful light seemed to illumine her face.
0	Have this note sent to Mrs. Erlynne at No.
0	Well, I suppose you have been telling our young friend, Gerald, what his new duties are to be, and giving him a great deal of good advice over a pleasant cigarette.
0	But my emerald is larger.
0	I believe it is most unhealthy.
0	What had Dorian Gray to do with Sibyl Vane's death?
0	"I simply want to see the place--that is all.
0	Yes, he would be good, and the hideous thing that he had hidden away would no longer be a terror to him.
0	They’re the only things we _can_ pay.
0	And now you can get my carriage for me, Sir Robert.
0	I thought you would have been proud to see me Lord Illingworth’s secretary.
0	Campbell felt dominated by him.
0	‘It is a Sabbath, and He will be there.’ The young Fisherman started and looked at her, and she showed her white teeth and laughed.
0	Too quickly touched by them, I fear.
0	"Dorian Gray is my dearest friend," he said.
0	Come, Herodias, our guests await us.
0	Ugliness was the one reality.
0	That is a great advantage, don't you think so, Mr.
0	I hope you will be more reasonable in your terms.
0	Dorian Gray laughed and shook his head.
0	What are the unreal things, but the passions that once burned one like fire?
0	Philistinism was the note of the age and community in which he lived.
0	She had swallowed something by mistake, some dreadful thing they use at theatres.
0	The problems of idealism and realism, as he sets them forth, may seem to many to be somewhat barren of result in the metaphysical sphere of abstract being in which he places them, but transfer them to the sphere of art, and you will find that they are still vital and full of meaning.
0	Nor, again, is the critic really limited to the subjective form of expression.
0	It’s only an affectation, Lady Windermere.
0	And I think it would be a good thing if I was able to tell him that I had—well, what shall I say?—£2000 a year left to me by a third cousin—or a second husband—or some distant relative of that kind.
0	I hope it did not end happily?
0	My courtiers called me the Happy Prince, and happy indeed I was, if pleasure be happiness.
0	No; I don’t want music just at present.
0	I am sick of them.
0	We can't both be christened Ernest.
0	I beg your pardon, father, I forgot.
0	Children begin by loving their parents.
0	He had been to visit his friend the Cornish ogre, and had stayed with him for seven years.
0	He told me how my mother had died a few months after I was born.
0	For the aim of the liar is simply to charm, to delight, to give pleasure.
0	The little duchess is quite devoted to you.
0	"Basil," he said, coming over quite close and looking him straight in the face, "we have each of us a secret.
0	‘Where is he, where is he?’ shrieked the witches when they saw her, but she only laughed, and ran to the hornbeam, and taking the Fisherman by the hand she led him out into the moonlight and began to dance.
0	There sitteth a foul beggar-woman under that fair and green-leaved tree.
0	There is something in that name that seems to inspire absolute confidence.
0	The men laughed, and Mr. Chapman got up solemnly from the foot of the table and came up to the top.
0	The Creeds are believed, not because they are rational, but because they are repeated.
0	It would be quite impossible to sleep, with such a noise going on outside the bedrooms."
0	They made quite a story of it.
0	Do you always really understand what you say, sir?
0	But why does she call herself little Cecily if she is your aunt and lives at Tunbridge Wells?
0	However, I will tell you quite frankly that I have no brother Ernest.
0	That lady is Miss Cecily Cardew, my ward.
0	Even the cattle of the field praise Him.’ But the Star-Child heeded not their words, but would frown and flout, and go back to his companions, and lead them.
0	Now I am approaching life from a completely new standpoint, and even to conceive happiness is often extremely difficult for me.
0	He thought for a moment, and looked round at the rest of the room.
0	And you tell me there is nothing between you?
0	Yes, I have seen a good deal of her since then.
0	go—go out of this house, with head erect, with a smile upon your lips, with courage in your eyes.
0	Yes, here is her fan.
0	The dead have come armed out of the grave to impose on him a mission at once too great and too mean for him.
0	"I give it to you."
0	The others write the poetry that they dare not realize."
0	Then the Swallow came back to the Prince.
0	Miss Worsley is going to play.
0	No man hath seen God since the prophet Elias.
0	Perhaps one should never put one's worship into words."
0	And so, in his own library, as he describes it, we find the delicate fictile vase of the Greek, with its exquisitely painted figures and the faint ΚΑΛΟΣ finely traced upon its side, and behind it hangs an engraving of the ‘Delphic Sibyl’ of Michael Angelo, or of the ‘Pastoral’ of Giorgione.
0	Remember to what a point your Puritanism in England has brought you.
0	On the first night I was at the theatre, the horrid old Jew came round to the box after the performance was over and offered to take me behind the scenes and introduce me to her.
0	So pleased to meet you, Lady Jedburgh.
0	Perhaps she told them the true reason of her being there, and the real meaning of that—fatal fan of mine.
0	let us worship,’ whispered the Witch, and she led him up, and a great desire to do as she besought him seized on him, and he followed her.
0	As soon as you have one, you seem to want to throw it away.
0	It comes from the natural inability of a community corrupted by authority to understand or appreciate Individualism.
0	I used to live entirely for pleasure.
0	So I know my constitution can stand it.
0	What a fearful thing it is!
0	Hope to goodness she won’t speak to me!
0	As soon as Campbell had left, he went upstairs.
0	And now, my dear child, I must go, as we are dining out.
0	He admired Turner and Constable at a time when they were not so much thought of as they are now, and saw that for the highest landscape art we require more than ‘mere industry and accurate transcription.’  Of Crome’s ‘Heath Scene near Norwich’ he remarks that it shows ‘how much a subtle observation of the elements, in their wild moods, does for a most uninteresting flat,’ and of the popular type of landscape of his day he says that it is ‘simply an enumeration of hill and dale, stumps of trees, shrubs, water, meadows, cottages and houses; little more than topography, a kind of pictorial map-work; in which rainbows, showers, mists, haloes, large beams shooting through rifted clouds, storms, starlight, all the most valued materials of the real painter, are not.’  He had a thorough dislike of what is obvious or commonplace in art, and while he was charmed to entertain Wilkie at dinner, he cared as little for Sir David’s pictures as he did for Mr. Crabbe’s poems.
0	If so, he never forgave you.
0	But he still watched the cabinet.
0	You must never see her again, Robert.
0	I will go to him!
0	I can’t stand your English house-parties.
0	You know well that it is I whom he seeks to revile.
0	can't you forgive me for to-night?
0	There was animalism in the soul, and the body had its moments of spirituality.
0	The sibyls and prophets of the Sistine may indeed serve to interpret for some that new birth of the emancipated spirit that we call the Renaissance; but what do the drunken boors and bawling peasants of Dutch art tell us about the great soul of Holland?
0	From a moral point of view, I cannot say that I think much of your great renunciation.
0	I attribute it to the superior quality of the wine, sir.
0	"Do you mean about Sibyl Vane?"
0	They will be like little white flowers that dance upon the trees.... No, no, she is going to dance on blood.
0	I have a great desire for food.
0	It drew attention to the following paragraph: INQUEST ON AN ACTRESS.--An inquest was held this morning at the Bell Tavern, Hoxton Road, by Mr. Danby, the District Coroner, on the body of Sibyl Vane, a young actress recently engaged at the Royal Theatre, Holborn.
0	_The voices grow louder_, _and she goes back into the drawing-room_, _biting her lip_.]
0	But when he saw her who was waiting there, he laughed scornfully and said, ‘Why, where is my mother?
0	My son has no need of you.
0	No, I don’t care for that lamp.
0	And so he had begun by vivisecting himself, as he had ended by vivisecting others.
0	I am sorry you won't let me look at the picture once again.
0	"You should have gone away when I asked you," he muttered.
0	You do it so well," he answered bitterly.
0	And at sunset he set his face towards home, weeping bitterly, for he knew what fate was in store for him.
0	There is the despot who tyrannises over the soul.
0	At luncheon I saw by the glare in his eye that he was going to propose again, and I just managed to check him in time by assuring him that I was a bimetallist.
0	“It is going to rain sticks”; and she rushed into the water.
0	That purification and spiritualising of the nature which he calls κάθαρσις is, as Goethe saw, essentially æsthetic, and is not moral, as Lessing fancied.
0	Romance is a thing of the past.” “Nonsense!” said the Roman Candle, “Romance never dies.
0	This marriage, this necessary marriage, this marriage which for obvious reasons must inevitably take place, will not help me, will not give me a name that will be really, rightly mine to bear.
0	He knew it, and he felt as if his blood had changed in a moment from fire to sluggish ice.
0	Life and Nature may sometimes be used as part of Art’s rough material, but before they are of any real service to art they must be translated into artistic conventions.
0	Do you take no side then in modern politics, Lord Illingworth?
0	Still, I should go to Homburg, dear, I really should.
0	How often do you see him?"
0	Uncle Jack is sending you to Australia.
0	You should study the Peerage, Gerald.
0	He felt a little annoyed with Lord Henry for having sent him the report.
0	She crouched on the floor like a wounded thing, and Dorian Gray, with his beautiful eyes, looked down at her, and his chiselled lips curled in exquisite disdain.
0	Let me go, I say!
0	"Kiss me, Mother," said the girl.
0	"Let us go and sit in the shade," said Lord Henry.
0	I have not seen you since yesterday.
0	Tommy is the most useful person in London.
0	I remember that I saw that he looked languorously at Salomé.
0	You may have some other reason you don’t wish me to hear.
0	"You fill me with apprehension.
0	As a rule, he never left his shop.
0	We all behaved brutally to her.
0	the shame of it, the shame of it.
0	My dear father, when one pays a visit it is for the purpose of wasting other people’s time, not one’s own.
0	But if they’re in love with some one who, perhaps, is tied to another?
0	Herodias draws from the hand of the Tetrarch the ring of death and gives it to the Soldier, who straightway bears it to the Executioner.
0	Oh, don’t mention that dreadful vulgar place.
0	The rest murmured against me, and said that I had brought them an evil fortune.
0	He knew what it was.
0	For there is such a little time that your youth will last--such a little time.
0	If it does I shall owe much to this new personality that has altered every man's life in this place.
0	He spoke with slow deliberation.
0	You became to me the visible incarnation of that unseen ideal whose memory haunts us artists like an exquisite dream.
0	Yes, picture for picture was repeated, and couch for couch.
0	I think on the whole that Grosvenor Square would be a more healthy place to reside in.
0	Tell Henry to wait for an answer.
0	What is going on in town?
0	The negroes chattered to each other, and began to quarrel over a string of bright beads.
0	Really, Gwendolen, I don't think I can allow this at all.
0	My mother had the same name as myself, Margaret.
0	Didn't it go off all right, old boy?
0	"My aunt has often spoken to me about you.
0	[_He passes from the room_.
0	The result of his error was the French Revolution.
0	If you will allow me, I will call your carriage for you.
0	The Afghans have slain the black ox, and are marching to battle.
0	"I will try to be there, Harry," he said, leaving the room.
0	Even if it were not so, there is no more reason that we should continue any imperfections which may be supposed to have characterised Shakespeare’s stage mounting than that we should have Juliet played by a young man, or give up the advantage of changeable scenery.
0	He played very badly, but no one had ever dared to tell him so, because he was the King.
0	He missed, indeed, at times the fine freedom of his forest life, and was always apt to chafe at the tedious Court ceremonies that occupied so much of each day, but the wonderful palace—_Joyeuse_, as they called it—of which he now found himself lord, seemed to him to be a new world fresh-fashioned for his delight; and as soon as he could escape from the council-board or audience-chamber, he would run down the great staircase, with its lions of gilt bronze and its steps of bright porphyry, and wander from room to room, and from corridor to corridor, like one who was seeking to find in beauty an anodyne from pain, a sort of restoration from sickness.
0	Lord Augustus, listen to me.
0	I will go with him—I have no choice.
0	The night was so black that little Hans could hardly see, and the wind was so strong that he could scarcely stand.
0	You know Lady Brancaster, don’t you, dear?
0	Oh, thank you, thank you.
0	[MRS. CHEVELEY _starts_; _then bows with somewhat exaggerated politeness to_ LADY CHILTERN, _who makes no sign of response_.
0	And, above all things, they are not to interfere with other people or judge them in any way.
0	"I suppose because we have no ruins and no curiosities," said Virginia, satirically.
0	The subjects discussed, as I have since learned from Mr. Otis, were merely such as form the ordinary conversation of cultured Americans of the better class, such as the immense superiority of Miss Fanny Devonport over Sarah Bernhardt as an actress; the difficulty of obtaining green corn, buckwheat cakes, and hominy, even in the best English houses; the importance of Boston in the development of the world-soul; the advantages of the baggage-check system in railway travelling; and the sweetness of the New York accent as compared to the London drawl.
0	I should have thought you knew more about people's characters.
0	Yes, I remember now that the General was called Ernest, I knew I had some particular reason for disliking the name.
0	It reminded her of a bad rehearsal.
0	I demand the head of Jokanaan.
0	He would laugh at any one who tried to taunt him.
0	I had dragged it through the very mire.
0	When we have done penance, and are purified, and have drunk of the fountain of Lethe and bathed in the fountain of Eunoe, the mistress of our soul raises us to the Paradise of Heaven.
0	Mind you take great care of my little chatterbox, Mr. Hopper.
0	"I dare say, my dear," said Lord Henry, shutting the door behind her as, looking like a bird of paradise that had been out all night in the rain, she flitted out of the room, leaving a faint odour of frangipanni.
0	No; it was merely an illusion wrought on the troubled senses.
0	Is this the hand-bag, Miss Prism?
0	She stole things, she was a thief.
0	At Cambridge, for instance, during his day, a play of _Richard The Third_ was performed, in which the actors were attired in real dresses of the time, procured from the great collection of historical costume in the Tower, which was always open to the inspection of managers, and sometimes placed at their disposal.
0	My wife and I will be charmed to see you!
0	Came from Fonthill, I believe.
0	I hope your hair curls naturally, does it?
0	Scepticism is the beginning of faith."
0	The thing is quite simple.
0	May I ring for something?
0	A woman who can keep a man’s love, and love him in return, has done all the world wants of women, or should want of them.
0	"I am tired of strawberry leaves."
0	[_Advances towards_ MRS. CHEVELEY _with a sweet smile_.
0	In modern plays the black frock-coat of the hero becomes important in itself, and should be given a suitable background.
0	Come, let us drive her hence, for she is ugly and ill-favoured.’ So he came near and threw stones at her, and mocked her, and she looked at him with terror in her eyes, nor did she move her gaze from him.
0	The girl looked up and pouted.
0	I leave romance to my seniors.
0	It has been going on now for three hundred years.
0	She would be sure to make a scene, and he detested scenes of every kind.
0	You must let me have time to consider your proposal.
0	MABEL CHILTERN [_With a little moue of disappointment_.]
0	On the contrary, it says to man that he should suffer no compulsion to be exercised over him.
0	I am Miss Cardew's guardian, and she cannot marry without my consent until she comes of age.
0	I am going to ride at eleven.
0	Was not round him a cloak of gold tissue broidered with stars?’ ‘Truly,’ answered the Woodcutter, ‘it was even as thou sayest.’  And he took the cloak and the amber chain from the chest where they lay, and showed them to her.
0	But when the wind blew to the shore, the fish came in from the deep, and swam into the meshes of his nets, and he took them to the market-place and sold them.
0	"I'm awfully sorry, Mr. Otis," gasped out the boy, "but I can't eat any dinner as long as Virginia is lost.
0	I won't tell you that I am dissatisfied with what I have done of him, or that his beauty is such that art cannot express it.
0	"My dear fellow," said Lord Henry, elevating his eyebrows in surprise, "I asked you because I thought you might be able to give me an answer.
0	But won't you miss your train?"
0	There is something terribly morbid in the modern sympathy with pain.
0	It is too late to sleep.
0	I am so sorry I was not here to listen to you, but I suppose I am too old now to learn.
0	He would examine with minute care, and sometimes with a monstrous and terrible delight, the hideous lines that seared the wrinkling forehead or crawled around the heavy sensual mouth, wondering sometimes which were the more horrible, the signs of sin or the signs of age.
0	Do you not hear it?
0	You would not understand it.
0	Each class would have preached the importance of those virtues, for whose exercise there was no necessity in their own lives.
0	Transcribed from the 1915 Methuen & Co. Ltd. edition by David Price, email ccx074@pglaf.org The Importance of Being Earnest A Trivial Comedy for Serious People John Worthing, J.P. Algernon Moncrieff Rev.
0	As for the virtuous poor, one can pity them, of course, but one cannot possibly admire them.
0	A dull rage was in his heart.
0	In land, or in investments?
0	He brushed his brown curls back from his forehead, and taking up a lute, let his fingers stray across the cords.
0	I would sooner say, or hear it said of me, that I was so typical a child of my age, that in my perversity, and for that perversity's sake, I turned the good things of my life to evil, and the evil things of my life to good.
0	And when he pierced with a sharp reed the dim eyes of the mole, they laughed, and when he cast stones at the leper they laughed also.
0	Women have become too brilliant.
0	_The_ VICOMTE DE NANJAC, _a young attaché known for his neckties and his Anglomania_, _approaches with a low bow_, _and enters into conversation_.]
0	The men want to know if they are to put the carpets on the terrace for to-night, my lady?
0	But in this we are merely lending to other ages what we desire, or think we desire, for our own.
0	You spoke to me last night of her as of a woman pure and stainless, a woman whom you respected and honoured.
0	She is not symbolic of any age.
0	Half of the chaps who get into the Bankruptcy Court are called Algernon.
0	Is there a single decent woman in London now who would drive with her in the park?
0	My only mistake was that I confined myself so exclusively to the trees of what seemed to me the sun-lit side of the garden, and shunned the other side for its shadow and its gloom.
0	For some time he was disturbed by wild shrieks of laughter from the twins, who, with the light-hearted gaiety of schoolboys, were evidently amusing themselves before they retired to rest, but at a quarter-past eleven all was still, and, as midnight sounded, he sallied forth.
0	They swallow their classics whole, and never taste them.
0	Something you are quite sure of?
0	Of course once I had put into motion the forces of society, society turned on me and said, 'Have you been living all this time in defiance of my laws, and do you now appeal to those laws for protection?
0	“The what?” screamed the Water-rat.
0	You can have whatever allowance you like, and live where you choose.
0	Mrs. Arbuthnot, I wish you would let us be friends.
0	I am not tired, Tetrarch.
0	I do that as it is.
0	my son,’ she cried, ‘wilt thou not kiss me before I go?
0	No one can tell how God worketh.
0	Why do you talk of it?
0	I should have said that great artists work unconsciously, that they were ‘wiser than they knew,’ as, I think, Emerson remarks somewhere.
0	It will cause her infinite pain—it will humiliate her terribly, but it’s right that she should know.
0	He calls it 'God's Kingdom,' and finds it in every one.
0	And how well he succeeds!
0	Were you married to my father?"
0	It accounts for the extraordinary number of bachelors that one sees all over the place.
0	Dear Mr. Cardew is ruining the country.
0	He thinks you are asleep in your own room.
0	Lord Henry flung himself into a large wicker arm-chair and watched him.
0	"Oh, I am tired of sitting, and I don't want a life-sized portrait of myself," answered the lad, swinging round on the music-stool in a wilful, petulant manner.
0	We’ll go away to-day, if you like.
0	The knowledge was exquisite to me.
0	I called on thee at dawn, and thou didst not come to my call.
0	That curiosity about life which Lord Henry had first stirred in him, as they sat together in the garden of their friend, seemed to increase with gratification.
0	I had forgotten that in an extravagant mood I had had them placed there.
0	I threw the pearl of my soul into a cup of wine.
0	Thou didst speak evil words against me.
0	It is evident, then, that all authority in such things is bad.
0	Besides, no ghost in history had ever been treated in this manner.
0	Death is the brother of Sleep, is he not?” And he kissed the Happy Prince on the lips, and fell down dead at his feet.
0	You have no right to do such a thing!
0	Dorian winced and looked round at the grotesque things that lay in such fantastic postures on the ragged mattresses.
0	Come, let us go forth and mend these things, and make them not to be.
0	"What can I do for you, Mr.
0	He was very terrible to look upon.
0	Wherefore I will go and seek her through the whole world, nor will I rest till I have found her.’ And there came to him the little daughter of the Woodcutter, and she put her hand upon his shoulder and said, ‘What doth it matter if thou hast lost thy comeliness?
0	Well, my own dear, sweet, loving little darling, I really can't see why you should object to the name of Algernon.
0	The opinions of English critics on a French work       of mine have, of course, little, if any, interest for       me.
0	You don't even know his name.
0	‘The lose that results to literature in general from this false ideal of our time can hardly be overestimated.
0	I will speak to the florist, my lord.
0	The whole thing was a _fiasco_.
0	Some of the drivers were lying asleep on a pile of sacks.
0	It is to be surmised that they are bills, as Algernon, after looking at the envelopes, tears them up.]
0	You look at her too much.
0	Surely his wish had not been fulfilled?
0	It is a base concession to fact.
0	The fact is, the public make use of the classics of a country as a means of checking the progress of Art.
0	Then I must learn how to be happy.
0	You are nothing to me now.
0	My nature is seeking a fresh mode of self-realisation.
0	It is an absurd attitude to take towards life.
0	But that does not affect the wonderful beauty of his answer.
0	There are wheels within wheels.
0	Thou art not one of us.
0	Cæsar, who is lord of the world, who is lord of all things, loves me well.
0	In truth, yes, I know it.
0	They ultimately found her lying dead on the floor of her dressing-room.
0	I think we were both rather nervous.
0	When the Duke de Valentinois, son of Alexander VI, visited Louis XII of France, his horse was loaded with gold leaves, according to Brantome, and his cap had double rows of rubies that threw out a great light.
0	But then, from the point of view through which I, as an artist in life, approach them they were delightfully suggestive and stimulating.
0	Lady Bracknell looks vaguely about as if she could not understand what the noise was.
0	Let him leave me if he chooses, but not with him—not with him!
0	Her trust makes me faithful, her belief makes me good.
0	I read of it quite by chance in a late edition of _The Globe_ that I picked up at the club.
0	What about your country-house and the life that is led there?
0	Why should it keep what I must lose?
0	I believe that Memory is responsible for nearly all the three-volume novels that Mudie sends us.
0	He may keep the law, and yet be worthless.
0	Lady Pagden sent her to me.
0	I have none now, but that we two may love each other.
0	Cecil, you’ll have a whisky and soda?
0	The grass withered beneath her feet as she walked.
0	For the real artist is he who proceeds, not from feeling to form, but from form to thought and passion.
0	Speaking very slowly, he told him to tell the house-keeper that he wanted to see her, and then to go to the frame-maker and ask him to send two of his men round at once.
0	Perhaps we never really had it.
0	Three portmanteaus, a dressing-case, two hat-boxes, and a large luncheon-basket.
0	It is so very, very gratifying to hear you say that.
0	I could not do that."
0	That is certainly a very grave qualification, but I must say that I think you are rather unfair in some of your strictures.
0	Everything belonging to him had been destroyed.
0	She is a Puritan besides— LORD ILLINGWORTH.
0	This so upset the gravity of the Infanta that she kept on laughing long after the little Dwarf had ran out of the arena, and expressed a desire to her uncle that the dance should be immediately repeated.
0	You're quite perfect, Miss Fairfax.
0	Really, considering that I am going to give you my wheelbarrow, I think you might work harder.
0	MRS. MARCHMONT              _Miss Helen Forsyth_.
0	I think that is quite as it should be.
0	Perhaps I may admit it after supper.
0	I hope he treated his grandson better than he did the jarvies."
0	The form of government that is most suitable to the artist is no government at all.
0	It is really one of the few houses in London where I can take Agatha, and where I feel perfectly secure about dear Berwick.
0	And as for thy dreams, think no more of them.
0	‘We went from the country of the Tartars into the country of those who curse the Moon.
0	Now, the value of an idea has nothing whatsoever to do with the sincerity of the man who expresses it.
0	Every one is born a king, and most people die in exile, like most kings.
0	You must come with me and drive straight home.
0	It was clear to him that the experimental method was the only method by which one could arrive at any scientific analysis of the passions; and certainly Dorian Gray was a subject made to his hand, and seemed to promise rich and fruitful results.
0	But, Gerald, it is I who refuse.
0	The only thing to do is to feed the wretches well.
0	‘The historical plays teach history to those who cannot read it in the chronicles,’ says Heywood in a tract about the stage, and yet I am sure that sixteenth-century chronicles were much more delightful reading than nineteenth-century primers are.
0	Nor was it merely from books and treatises that they acquired their knowledge.
0	It was you who tore me from his arms.
0	I shall have to alter all this.
0	Through the streets of the cities walks Famine, and the Plague sits at their gates.
0	He has nothing, but he looks everything.
0	There is no doubt of that.
0	As far as the piano is concerned, sentiment is my forte.
0	But really, Dorian, how different Sibyl Vane must have been from all the women one meets!
0	There are moments when the odour of _lilas blanc_ passes suddenly across me, and I have to live the strangest month of my life over again.
0	That seems to me to have the stamp of truth upon it.
0	Knowing how the artistic temperament is always fascinated by beauty of costume, he constantly introduces into his plays masques and dances, purely for the sake of the pleasure which they give the eye; and we have still his stage-directions for the three great processions in _Henry the Eighth_, directions which are characterised by the most extraordinary elaborateness of detail down to the collars of S.S. and the pearls in Anne Boleyn’s hair.
0	One night after dinner at Lord Radley’s the Baron began talking about success in modern life as something that one could reduce to an absolutely definite science.
0	What do you want then, Mrs. Cheveley?
0	It gave us our direct route to India.
0	And this is, I dare say, very fortunate for him; for I have no doubt that reformation is a much more painful process than punishment, is indeed punishment in its most aggravated and moral form—a fact which accounts for our entire failure as a community to reclaim that interesting phenomenon who is called the confirmed criminal.
0	But I don’t wish to destroy the delightfully unreal picture that you have drawn of the relation of the Hellenic artist to the intellectual spirit of his age.
0	By the side of the hearse and the coaches walked the servants with lighted torches, and the whole procession was wonderfully impressive.
0	Mrs. Erlynne looked very handsome to-night, didn’t she?
0	My son may come in at any moment.
0	We know the patterns on the Dauphin’s armour and the Pucelle’s sword, the crest on Warwick’s helmet and the colour of Bardolph’s nose.
0	It is absurd to say that.
0	I think they should never be forgiven.
0	Of the threat she said nothing.
0	You needn’t be anxious about him, dear.
0	[_Goes to table with_ LORD DARLINGTON.]
0	Dorian lit a cigarette and walked over to the glass and glanced into it.
0	Fancy being cooped up in a horrid ship, with the hoarse, hump-backed waves trying to get in, and a black wind blowing the masts down and tearing the sails into long screaming ribands!
0	You are at liberty to go away with Lord Illingworth, when and where you choose.
0	But the Suez Canal was a very great and splendid undertaking.
0	So she had known only by hearsay of ‘Our Lady’s Dance,’ as it was called, and it certainly was a beautiful sight.
0	But do you believe all that is written in the newspapers?
0	And that should be man?
0	Ah, not as a poet!
0	That is why, like Eve, they are so extremely anxious to get out of it.
0	All the women of that family were.
0	He had called to her once in the valley, and she had answered him word for word.
0	‘By the hoofs of the goat I swear it,’ she made answer.
0	The political economist may cry out against it for putting the improvident on the same level as the provident, and so robbing life of the strongest, because most sordid, incentive to industry.
0	I thought Robert was to write.
0	A mask tells us more than a face.
0	Whatever it is, I need not say I will not repeat it.
0	Most women in London, nowadays, seem to furnish their rooms with nothing but orchids, foreigners, and French novels.
0	No, men are so cowardly, aren't they?
0	After that they had done this several times, they disappeared for a moment and came back leading a brown shaggy bear by a chain, and carrying on their shoulders some little Barbary apes.
0	"To define is to limit."
0	Agitators are a set of interfering, meddling people, who come down to some perfectly contented class of the community, and sow the seeds of discontent amongst them.
0	She’s not on the terrace?
0	The post should suit him admirably, unless he has deteriorated since I knew him first.
0	"He is very good-looking," assented Lord Henry.
0	Get thee gone, and come here no more.’ ‘Nay,’ answered Death, ‘but till thou hast given me a grain of corn I will not go.’ But Avarice shut her hand, and clenched her teeth.
0	Again, the crest on Warwick’s helmet, of which such a point is made in _Henry the Sixth_, is absolutely correct in a fifteenth-century play when crests were generally worn, but would not have been so in a play of Shakespeare’s own time, when feathers and plumes had taken their place—a fashion which, as he tells us in _Henry the Eighth_, was borrowed from France.
0	He stood there for some minutes looking at the dead body.
0	You see how she obeys you.
0	I suppose I had better write it at once.
0	"I adore simple pleasures," said Lord Henry.
0	When he caught sight of Lord Henry, a faint blush coloured his cheeks for a moment, and he started up.
0	He at least is safe.
0	A strange sense of fear, for which he could not account, came over him.
0	I will not have her dance while you look at her in this fashion.
0	If I in—in trouble, and wanting your help, trusting you, propose to come to you .
0	In fact, I don't want any white ones.
0	His aim was simply to revenge himself on the first office that had refused to pay him the price of his sin.
0	He got up from his chair and drew a large screen right in front of the portrait, shuddering as he glanced at it.
0	But, sir, I will tell you one thing in which I have succeeded to the last.
0	The walls were hung with rich tapestries representing the Triumph of Beauty.
0	“Why can’t you be like the Happy Prince?” asked a sensible mother of her little boy who was crying for the moon.
0	cut my lace asunder!— are only a few of the many examples one might quote.
0	Miss Cardew was a little too much interested in your poor brother Ernest?
0	The antithesis between them is entirely arbitrary.
0	And that Shakespeare examined Richard’s tomb in Westminster Abbey seems to me certain from York’s speech:—     See, see, King Richard doth himself appear     As doth the blushing discontented sun     From out the fiery portal of the east,     When he perceives the envious clouds are bent     To dim his glory.
0	Am I safe here, Harry?"
0	Sir Thomas Browne     was a ‘bosom cronie’ of his; so was Burton, and old Fuller.
0	What have I to do with you?
0	Well, I won't have him talk to you about Bunbury or about anything else.
0	here is the duchess, looking like Artemis in a tailor-made gown.
0	Days would elapse before he could come back.
0	Yes; he says terrible things about her.
0	I have a lot of work to do."
0	The gods made Sibyl Vane for you.
0	Perhaps if his life became pure, he would be able to expel every sign of evil passion from the face.
0	We women, as some one says, love with our ears, just as you men love with your eyes, if you ever love at all."
0	My dear Windermere, manners before morals!
0	They dug deep pits in the ground and went down into them.
0	Suddenly she spread her brown wings for flight, and soared into the air.
0	I have a horrible presentiment that something of the kind may happen to me."
0	What sort of boy is he?
0	I had disgraced that name eternally.
0	He has just sent me most precious gifts.
0	All my girl-friends tell me so.
0	Providence and Mr. Walter Besant have exhausted the obvious.
0	I have not yet finished with you, with either of you.
0	wherefore dost thou tarry, Salomé?
0	‘“Tell me on what couch, and I will watch by him,” I answered.
0	I might bring shame upon you!
0	There was no other sound save the sound of a wave fretting the smooth pebbles below.
0	Every one, even in a turbulent, ill- disciplined life, should do the same.
0	‘And did not one God make us?
0	"I will tell you," said Hallward; but an expression of perplexity came over his face.
0	[LORD AUGUSTUS _takes no notice_.]
0	Was it not Plato, that artist in thought, who had first analyzed it?
0	I am glad you have called.
0	Out of the black cave of time, terrible and swathed in scarlet, rose the image of his sin.
0	But there was disdain in it.
0	A political life is a noble career!
0	She is more than a mystery—she is a mood.
0	Yes, the common sense of husbands is certainly most, most trying.
0	"Why on earth don't you keep your men back?
0	For what are called criminals nowadays are not criminals at all.
0	In 1852 he died of apoplexy, his sole living companion being a cat, for which he had evinced at extraordinary affection.
0	Lady Hunstanton and Mrs. Allonby.
0	Or was that merely his own fancy?
0	I inquired what became of the governess, and she replied that, oddly enough, some years after the appearance of _Vanity Fair_, she ran away with the nephew of the lady with whom she was living, and for a short time made a great splash in society, quite in Mrs. Rawdon Crawley’s style, and entirely by Mrs. Rawdon Crawley’s methods.
0	Arthur, you can go to Mabel, and you have my best wishes!
0	The masses feel that drunkenness, stupidity, and immorality should be their own special property, and that if any one of us makes an ass of himself, he is poaching on their preserves.
0	I think Mrs. Cheveley and I have met before.
0	After the coffee had been brought in, he stopped, and looking over at Lord Henry, said, "Harry, did it ever occur to you that Basil was murdered?"
0	At last he came to the poor house and looked in.
0	[He tries to rise; she restrains him.]
0	That is not such a tragic thing as possibly it sounds to you.
0	Well, ever since dear Uncle Jack first confessed to us that he had a younger brother who was very wicked and bad, you of course have formed the chief topic of conversation between myself and Miss Prism.
0	"You have killed my love," he muttered.
0	As a matter of form, Mr. Worthing, I had better ask you if Miss Cardew has any little fortune?
0	How silly to write on pink paper!
0	It has reached him already.
0	She stands apart as good women do—pitiless in her perfection—cold and stern and without mercy.
0	I owe nothing to other women.
0	I have heard them at night-time, and they have sought to lure me from my beads.
0	No—what consoles one nowadays is not repentance, but pleasure.
0	He who wears them on his forehead can imagine things which are not, and he who carries them in his hand can make women sterile.
0	I had not thought of that.
0	Waiter, bring coffee, and _fine-champagne_, and some cigarettes.
0	“What is the use of a statue if it cannot keep the rain off?” he said; “I must look for a good chimney-pot,” and he determined to fly away.
0	Of all this Guildenstern and Rosencrantz realise nothing.
0	They were all now in the greatest state of excitement, and did not know what to do, when Mr. Otis suddenly remembered that, some few days before, he had given a band of gipsies permission to camp in the park.
0	London is too full of fogs and—and serious people, Lord Windermere.
0	Well, that is no reason why you should eat them all in that greedy way.
0	The sleeping Faun that lay in the alcove by the doorway had its twin brother that slumbered, and the silver Venus that stood in the sunlight held out her arms to a Venus as lovely as herself.
0	I used to think ambition the great thing.
0	And yet I must admit that this thing that has happened does not affect me as it should.
0	It is as much behind the age as Paley’s _Evidences_, or Colenso’s method of Biblical exegesis.
0	It is awfully hard work doing nothing.
0	The ancient historians gave us delightful fiction in the form of fact; the modern novelist presents us with dull facts under the guise of fiction.
0	Her little white hands are fluttering like doves that fly to their dove-cots.
0	A man’s life is of more value than a woman’s.
0	He leaped from the saddle and threw the reins to one of them.
0	"To get back one's youth, one has merely to repeat one's follies."
0	They were the lines which that noble Queen of Prussia, whom Napoleon treated with such coarse brutality, used to quote in her humiliation and exile; they were the lines my mother often quoted in the troubles of her later life.
0	Upon what grounds may I ask?
0	The fascination she exercised over you then seems to have returned.
0	They are not improving subjects.
0	He would make her a necklace of red bryony berries, that would be quite as pretty as the white berries that she wore on her dress, and when she was tired of them, she could throw them away, and he would find her others.
0	One should never do anything that one cannot talk about after dinner.
0	I did not think so at first, but I admit it now.
0	Sir James, will you take me into the ball-room?
0	_Large open French window at back_, _looking on to garden_.
0	I am engaged to be married to Gwendolen, Lady Bracknell!
0	"Oh, I will make your peace with my aunt.
0	You must not be angry with me, Dorian, for what I have told you.
0	That is the new method.
0	He is also, under existing conditions, very insecure.
0	Do you think that Greek art ever tells us what the Greek people were like?
0	She will make no further effort to know you.
0	We all have our different tastes, have we not?
0	Lord Henry was lying back in a silk-draped wicker chair, looking at them.
0	[_He kills himself and falls between Salomé and Jokanaan._] The young Syrian has slain himself!
0	I think it most irreligious.
0	In all the country-side there was no garden so lovely as his.
0	As a rule this must necessarily be so.
0	Between your husband and myself.
0	How pale the Princess is!
0	Sire, I heard nothing concerning the matter.
0	Mr. Hopper is very late, too.
0	He kept his youth--that was enough.
0	She would probably never be allowed to know the entrancing pleasure of a single moment's solitude.
0	I think, from his blank look of amazement, that he was under the impression that I had taken too much champagne, or something."
0	All night long she sang with her breast against the thorn, and the cold crystal Moon leaned down and listened.
0	I think I have answered that question already; but there is this also to be said.
0	Perhaps you will hardly believe it."
0	It seemed to him that in some mysterious way their lives had been his own.
0	Which is the work of art, sir?"
0	My dear, how can you say that?
0	In a few moments they emerged, dragging a body after them into the sunlight.
0	I still thought it was you.
0	What seem to us bitter trials are often blessings in disguise.
0	But speak to me frankly.
0	It is very thoughtful of you.
0	But his work is entirely wrong from beginning to end, and wrong not on the ground of morals, but on the ground of art.
0	How lovely your primroses are looking, by-the-bye!” “‘They are certainly very lovely,’ said Hans, ‘and it is a most lucky thing for me that I have so many.
0	"One has to pay in other ways but money."
0	Only people who can't get into it do that.
0	They took hostages, and told us that they would open the gate to us at noon, and bade us tarry till then.
0	It is the divinest thing in us.
0	I am coming to you.
0	He knows nothing about it.
0	Lord Illingworth has made you the most flattering offer, and travelling with him you would see the world—as much of it, at least, as one should look at—under the best auspices possible, and stay with all the right people, which is so important at this solemn moment in your career.
0	Algernon is an extremely, I may almost say an ostentatiously, eligible young man.
0	Yes: it was certainly a tedious party.
0	It was not to have been sent.
0	“What a curious thing!” he cried; “there is not a single cloud in the sky, the stars are quite clear and bright, and yet it is raining.
0	No, no, I do not wish it.
0	Better to take pleasure in a rose than to put its root under a microscope.
0	You are talking about things of which you know nothing," said Dorian Gray, biting his lip, and with a note of infinite contempt in his voice.
0	Thank heaven, I saved him from that.
0	with your invalid friend who has the absurd name.
0	He had said things that were dreadful, horrible, not to be endured.
0	What I say is that marriage is a matter for common sense.
0	He smites him in the face, and they wrangle.
0	You are not jealous of material things, are you?--you who are finer than any of them!"
0	In Lodge's strange romance 'A Margarite of America', it was stated that in the chamber of the queen one could behold "all the chaste ladies of the world, inchased out of silver, looking through fair mirrours of chrysolites, carbuncles, sapphires, and greene emeraults."
0	"And weep over a faithless Florizel," said Lord Henry, laughing, as he leaned back in his chair.
0	I suppose society is wonderfully delightful!
0	Curious thing, plain women are always jealous of their husbands, beautiful women never are!
0	Quick breath parted the petals of her lips.
0	"Why didn't you kill him?"
0	And when the third year was over, and on a day that was a holy day, the Priest went up to the chapel, that he might show to the people the wounds of the Lord, and speak to them about the wrath of God.
0	"I am so sorry for it all, Dorian," said Lord Henry as he entered.
0	He would not hear of life being sacrificed to any system of thought or morals.
0	From the point of view of literature Mr. Kipling is a genius who drops his aspirates.
0	He is going to do everything for me.
0	He has the highest possible opinion of your boy.
0	How long ago that seems!
0	All imitation in morals and in life is wrong.
0	How very selfish of you to have four and a half!
0	Aren’t you coming in, Robert?
0	The duchess sighed and exercised her privilege of interruption.
0	I hope the candles have very becoming shades.
0	Going on to the Hartlocks’ to-night, Margaret?
0	It would do a great deal of good.
0	Yes, there were delightful things in store for him.
0	He felt glad at what he had said.
0	"I knew that you would understand me.
0	For it is the critical faculty that invents fresh forms.
0	she is very feminine, Caroline, and so good too.
0	Years went over, and the Giant grew very old and feeble.
0	How quiet you have been in your nice little corner all this time!
0	Once I knew it, or thought I knew it, by instinct.
0	Terrible things are in store for us, and we go to meet them in Dante’s raiment and with Dante’s heart.
0	And what aggravates the mischief is that the journalists who are most to blame are not the amusing journalists who write for what are called Society papers.
0	He hailed it and in a low voice gave the driver an address.
0	LADY WINDERMERE _slips out from behind the curtain and glides from the room L._] MRS. ERLYNNE.
0	She is everything to me in life.
0	As we approached it two eunuchs came out to meet us.
0	He spent a long time also over breakfast, tasting the various dishes, talking to his valet about some new liveries that he was thinking of getting made for the servants at Selby, and going through his correspondence.
0	She is a lost soul!—That is why I call Lord Illingworth a bad man.
0	‘Thou must dance with me, pretty boy,’ she murmured, and she smiled at him as she spoke.
0	I was only happy when I was with you.
0	The next day he did not leave the house, and, indeed, spent most of the time in his own room, sick with a wild terror of dying, and yet indifferent to life itself.
0	The master of the galley took a painted bow in his hand and shot one of them in the throat.
0	Nothing should be out of the reach of hope.
0	Lord Henry had told him that, and Lord Henry knew what women were.
0	He who would stir us now by fiction must either give us an entirely new background, or reveal to us the soul of man in its innermost workings.
0	What is the use of my always knitting mufflers for you if you won’t wear them?
0	But it seems we never give them quite enough, for they are very harsh to us.
0	Oh, she was so shy and so gentle.
0	Margaret, I came to ask you a great favour, and I still ask it of you, though you have discovered what I had intended you should never have known that I have given Mrs. Erlynne a large sum of money.
0	I remember hearing years ago of an old Lord Illingworth who lived in Yorkshire, I think.
0	The painter felt strangely moved.
0	He has sworn, he has sworn.
0	I hope I shall make a good secretary.
0	Wordsworth went to the lakes, but he was never a lake poet.
0	As a rule, he is charming to me, and we sit in the studio and talk of a thousand things.
0	Have you noticed in the picture something curious?--something that probably at first did not strike you, but that revealed itself to you suddenly?"
0	May I ask if you are engaged to be married to this young lady?
0	"We will come some other night."
0	Still less do I desire to talk learnedly.
0	He is the most Shakespearian creature since Shakespeare.
0	I have not the slightest fear of the result.
0	To the critic the work of art is simply a suggestion for a new work of his own, that need not necessarily bear any obvious resemblance to the thing it criticises.
0	"You always come dreadfully late."
0	Oh, if he knows—how can I look him in the face again?
0	They will hang me for what I have done."
0	Here is the basket, and mind you fill it quite full.’ “‘Quite full?’ said little Hans, rather sorrowfully, for it was really a very big basket, and he knew that if he filled it he would have no flowers left for the market and he was very anxious to get his silver buttons back.
0	"There was nothing evil in it, nothing shameful.
0	In England people actually try to be brilliant at breakfast.
0	Remember, Lady Basildon is expecting you.
0	Then the ghost spoke again, and his voice sounded like the sighing of the wind.
0	[_Bows to_ LADY WINDERMERE _and exit_.]
0	For that--for that--I would give everything!
0	I shall certainly drop in and look at the frame--though I don't go in much at present for religious art--but to-day I only want a picture carried to the top of the house for me.
0	They whistle some dreadful popular air from a British Opera.]
0	You are heartless, sir, very heartless!
0	The young Fisherman watched him, as one snared in a spell.
0	He started, and taking from his breast the beautiful white rose, he turned round, and kissed it.
0	She is like a dead woman.
0	All this I ask, even the half of your kingdom.
0	“Now I am going to explode,” he cried.
0	I don't quite like women who are interested in philanthropic work.
0	I would that they presently bring me in a silver charger....
0	And you are younger and more beautiful than ever.
0	In a coffer of nacre I have three wondrous turquoises.
0	Your relations with Mrs. Cheveley have, as I said to you last night, nothing whatsoever to do with me.
0	‘Nought but that?’ cried the young Fisherman in wonder and he rose to his feet.
0	The virtues of the poor may be readily admitted, and are much to be regretted.
0	Good-bye, once more; come, Agatha.
0	When he is missed, there must be no trace of him found here.
0	Nowadays a broken heart will run to many editions."
0	Resist it, and your soul grows sick with longing for the things it has forbidden to itself, with desire for what its monstrous laws have made monstrous and unlawful.
0	George delivering the Egyptian Princess from the Dragon,’ he remarks:—     The robe of Sabra, warmly glazed with Prussian blue, is relieved from     the pale greenish background by a vermilion scarf; and the full hues     of both are beautifully echoed, as it were, in a lower key by the     purple-lake coloured stuffs and bluish iron armour of the saint,     besides an ample balance to the vivid azure drapery on the foreground     in the indigo shades of the wild wood surrounding the castle.
0	She has been mad, and has come into the presence of a guilty king, and given him rue to wear and bitter herbs to taste of.
0	For two months they have had no tidings of Him.
0	[_Is about to embrace her_.
0	that is very nice, and very wrong of you," she cried; "so mind you come"; and she swept out of the room, followed by Lady Agatha and the other ladies.
0	What is done is done.
0	Out of the bed of the King she would rise, and over the whole world she would follow thee.
0	Grace was his, and the white purity of boyhood, and beauty such as old Greek marbles kept for us.
0	Be silent, speak not to me!...
0	A few ordinary platitudes will do.
0	But you don't really mean to say that you couldn't love me if my name wasn't Ernest?
0	Lord Canterville listened very gravely to the worthy Minister's speech, pulling his grey moustache now and then to hide an involuntary smile, and when Mr. Otis had ended, he shook him cordially by the hand, and said: "My dear sir, your charming little daughter rendered my unlucky ancestor, Sir Simon, a very important service, and I and my family are much indebted to her for her marvellous courage and pluck.
0	“How happy we were there,” they said to each other.
0	I was away with my love in a forest that no man had ever seen.
0	I am far too frightened to call."
0	There was the huge Italian _cassone_, with its fantastically painted panels and its tarnished gilt mouldings, in which he had so often hidden himself as a boy.
0	Action being limited would have left Shakespeare unsatisfied and unexpressed; and, just as it is because he did nothing that he has been able to achieve everything, so it is because he never speaks to us of himself in his plays that his plays reveal him to us absolutely, and show us his true nature and temperament far more completely than do those strange and exquisite sonnets, even, in which he bares to crystal eyes the secret closet of his heart.
0	Illingworth is entailed, of course, but it is a tedious barrack of a place.
0	And I can only tell you that your son has all the qualifications I had hoped for.
0	But alone, without any reference to his neighbours, without any interference, the artist can fashion a beautiful thing; and if he does not do it solely for his own pleasure, he is not an artist at all.
0	Perhaps you are tired of Gladys?
0	And that sort of thing makes a man so absolutely uninteresting.
0	Apparently to try and lure Robert to uphold some fraudulent scheme in which she is interested.
0	Dear Margaret, I’ve just been having such a delightful chat with Mrs. Erlynne.
0	If this girl can give a soul to those who have lived without one, if she can create the sense of beauty in people whose lives have been sordid and ugly, if she can strip them of their selfishness and lend them tears for sorrows that are not their own, she is worthy of all your adoration, worthy of the adoration of the world.
0	Thy mouth is redder than the feet of the doves who haunt the temples and are fed by the priests.
0	It’s a great mistake on her part.
0	Yes, she is coming towards us.
0	Socialism annihilates family life, for instance.
0	If so, marriage should be thought of.
0	As he was turning the handle of the door, his eye fell upon the portrait Basil Hallward had painted of him.
0	And yet what a subtle magic there was in them!
0	Those who accompanied him to the suite of rooms set apart for his service, often spoke of the cry of pleasure that broke from his lips when he saw the delicate raiment and rich jewels that had been prepared for him, and of the almost fierce joy with which he flung aside his rough leathern tunic and coarse sheepskin cloak.
0	You talk of atonement for a wrong done.
0	And you and I must never leave each other .
0	Some of them do it by going in for sentimental colours.
0	I see no difficulty at all in believing that such was the charm of his personality that his mere presence could bring peace to souls in anguish, and that those who touched his garments or his hands forgot their pain; or that as he passed by on the highway of life people who had seen nothing of life's mystery, saw it clearly, and others who had been deaf to every voice but that of pleasure heard for the first time the voice of love and found it as 'musical as Apollo's lute'; or that evil passions fled at his approach, and men whose dull unimaginative lives had been but a mode of death rose as it were from the grave when he called them; or that when he taught on the hillside the multitude forgot their hunger and thirst and the cares of this world, and that to his friends who listened to him as he sat at meat the coarse food seemed delicate, and the water had the taste of good wine, and the whole house became full of the odour and sweetness of nard.
0	But, as I was saying, you must not think I have not suffered.
0	She has got some smart women with her."
0	He saw that there was no mood of the mind that had not its counterpart in the sensuous life, and set himself to discover their true relations, wondering what there was in frankincense that made one mystical, and in ambergris that stirred one's passions, and in violets that woke the memory of dead romances, and in musk that troubled the brain, and in champak that stained the imagination; and seeking often to elaborate a real psychology of perfumes, and to estimate the several influences of sweet-smelling roots and scented, pollen-laden flowers; of aromatic balms and of dark and fragrant woods; of spikenard, that sickens; of hovenia, that makes men mad; and of aloes, that are said to be able to expel melancholy from the soul.
0	You will let me see you to your carriage, my own darling?
0	But with the dynamic forces of life, and those in whom those dynamic forces become incarnate, it is different.
0	It is like the vermilion that the Moabites find in the mines of Moab, the vermilion that the kings take from them.
0	I have simply worshipped pianists--two at a time, sometimes, Harry tells me.
0	You will hear our glee-club this evening.
0	We are specially designed to appeal to the sense of humour.
0	What on earth do you mean?
0	They say he has sold himself to the devil for a pretty face.
0	It is a great deal too prevalent nowadays.
0	He lit a cigarette and then threw it away.
0	My one quarrel is with words.
0	They merely frighten the sky at evening into violent chromolithographic effects.
0	I will work so hard and try to improve.
0	"Well, we must look out for a suitable match for him.
0	His life-work falls naturally under the three heads suggested by Mr. Swinburne, and it may be partly admitted that, if we set aside his achievements in the sphere of poison, what he has actually left to us hardly justifies his reputation.
0	We are not sent into the world to air our moral prejudices.
0	To him what is dumb is dead.
0	But it is very difficult to get into society isn’t it?
0	A house, everything in which has been paid for by fraud.
0	Let us have our coffee in the music-room, Dorian.
0	What a success I am!” But nobody saw him.
0	Indeed he is almost as good as the puppets, only of course not quite so natural.’  And she fluttered her big fan, and applauded.
0	You are not stronger--you are too much afraid of life--but you are better.
0	It would be absurd for him to marry so much beneath him."
0	Thy body is white like the snows that lie on the mountains, like the snows that lie on the mountains of Judæa, and come down into the valleys.
0	From one of them a nightingale was singing.
0	As far as I can make out, the young women of the present day seem to make it the sole object of their lives to be always playing with fire.
0	Your meeting us was a mere accident, a horrible accident.
0	Do you think she would, Gerald?
0	For what it seeks to disturb is monotony of type, slavery of custom, tyranny of habit, and the reduction of man to the level of a machine.
0	Mary Magdalen, when she sees Christ, breaks the rich vase of alabaster that one of her seven lovers had given her, and spills the odorous spices over his tired dusty feet, and for that one moment's sake sits for ever with Ruth and Beatrice in the tresses of the snow-white rose of Paradise.
0	"Come, Mr. Gray, my hansom is outside, and I can drop you at your own place.
0	[_Rises_, _and taking_ HESTER _by the hand_, _goes slowly over to where_ GERALD _is lying on the sofa with his head buried in his hands_.
0	In fact, it does not come to man with any claims upon him at all.
0	My treasures belong to thee.
0	went the Catherine Wheel, as she spun round and round.
0	But for those who are not artists, and to whom there is no mode of life but the actual life of fact, pain is the only door to perfection.
0	I thought you would have risen to some great height of self-sacrifice, Arthur.
0	I wrote down to you to ask you not to see any one till I came.
0	Dear Mr. Hopper, how nice of you to come so early.
0	Of course I flatter him dreadfully.
0	What Art really reveals to us is Nature’s lack of design, her curious crudities, her extraordinary monotony, her absolutely unfinished condition.
0	Geniuses talk so much, don’t they?
0	It had received the news of Sibyl Vane's death before he had known of it himself.
0	I feel like the latest edition of something or other.
0	Brain still weak, I suppose?
0	He is like a moonbeam, like a shaft of silver.
0	He hastened across the grass, and came near to the child.
0	I went to look after a piece of old brocade in Wardour Street and had to bargain for hours for it.
0	‘I had thought that there had been men who were kinglike,’ he answered, ‘but it may be as thou sayest.
0	You see, it is a very dangerous thing to listen.
0	I shall ask Margaret to give it to me.
0	I have to call for my husband at the club, to take him to some absurd meeting at Willis's Rooms, where he is going to be in the chair.
0	Such hideous things were for the darkness, not for the day.
0	The artist can express everything.
0	Perhaps I shall see you at Lady Thornbury's."
0	There was a stifled groan and the horrible sound of some one choking with blood.
0	I can see the flowers quite plainly in the moonlight."
0	"You could not have helped telling me, Dorian.
0	But this is not a solution: it is an aggravation of the difficulty.
0	It should never have been written.
0	I am glad of it.
0	My dear boy, if I wasn’t the most good-natured man in London— CECIL GRAHAM.
0	Let me look at it.
0	Of course I am going to take him.
0	This matter may prove to be one of vital importance to Lord Bracknell and myself.
0	Then the intimacy had come suddenly to an end.
0	The light is quite perfect, and you can bring your drinks."
0	She has just reminded me that we were at school together.
0	Round and round they whirled, and the young Witch jumped so high that he could see the scarlet heels of her shoes.
0	I store it in the treasure-house of my heart.
0	Lane, you're a perfect pessimist.
0	They gave the address in the paper.
0	However, I do not wish to dwell any further upon individual instances.
0	I assure you it is the case, and the amusing part of the whole thing is that the story of the cherry-tree is an absolute myth.
0	They are always asking a writer why he does not write like somebody else, or a painter why he does not paint like somebody else, quite oblivious of the fact that if either of them did anything of the kind he would cease to be an artist.
0	The mad passions of a hunted animal stirred within him, and he loathed the man who was seated at the table, more than in his whole life he had ever loathed anything.
0	"I don't think I can go in, Alan," he murmured.
0	Enough is as bad as a meal.
0	"You are mad, I tell you--mad to imagine that I would raise a finger to help you, mad to make this monstrous confession.
0	There was an exquisite poison in the air.
0	For on the loom of Sorrow, and by the white hands of Pain, has this my robe been woven.
0	I like you very much, you know that.
0	No artist is ever morbid.
0	I say you’ve been twice divorced and once married.
0	They find themselves surrounded by hideous poverty, by hideous ugliness, by hideous starvation.
0	Well, you certainly have had your success while you are still young.
0	Half the charm of the little village where he had been so often lately was that no one knew who he was.
0	The fact is, I am horribly busy to-night, Robert, and I gave orders I was not at home to any one.
0	For a quarter of an hour he walked up and down the room, biting his lip and thinking.
0	It may not hear her now, but surely some day, when we are all bored to death with the commonplace character of modern fiction, it will hearken to her and try to borrow her wings.
0	All women become like their mothers.
0	He was not a schoolboy or a girl.
0	Shakespeare is not by any means a flawless artist.
0	Thy voice was a censer that scattered strange perfumes, and when I looked on thee I heard a strange music.
0	We saw the Gryphons guarding their gold on the white rocks, and the scaled Dragons sleeping in their caves.
0	Besides, what I am pleading for is Lying in art.
0	When we reached the centre of the corridor the Emperor spake the word that may not be spoken, and a granite door swung back on a secret spring, and he put his hands before his face lest his eyes should be dazzled.
0	I know he wants to speak to you about your emigrating.
0	In the following case the imitation was self-conscious.
0	One of the greatest tragedies of my life is the death of Lucien de Rubempré.
0	In an incredibly short time he seems to have made his mark.
0	But pray, Ernest, don't stop.
0	Demmed clubs, demmed climate, demmed cooks, demmed everything.
0	Then he began ringing the bell.
0	His head was leaning on his hand, and his whole attitude was one of extreme depression.
0	I have brought a much more charming person than Sir John.
0	For although I am safe from detection, although every proof against me is destroyed, I suppose, Gertrude .
0	Wherefore art thou so cruel to all who need pity?’ Often did the old priest send for him, and seek to teach him the love of living things, saying to him: ‘The fly is thy brother.
0	We try to improve the conditions of the race by means of good air, free sunlight, wholesome water, and hideous bare buildings for the better housing of the lower orders.
0	Never have I seen her so pale.
0	If one listens one may be convinced; and a man who allows himself to be convinced by an argument is a thoroughly unreasonable person.
0	When he can do so without exercising restraint on others, or suffering it ever, and his activities are all pleasurable to him, he will be saner, healthier, more civilised, more himself.
0	Upon the other hand, the terrible truth that pain is a mode through which man may realise himself exercises a wonderful fascination over the world.
0	But now we know that the Galilean peasants, like the Irish peasants of our own day, were bilingual, and that Greek was the ordinary language of intercourse all over Palestine, as indeed all over the Eastern world.
0	He threw himself into a chair and began to think.
0	The fact that her past is always her lover, and her future invariably her husband.
0	"I do not understand you," said Sir Thomas, growing rather red.
0	White porcelain feet, if you like.
0	He made her love him so much that she left her father’s house with him one morning.
0	It may be that it is as a critic of Beauty that Plato is destined to live, and that by altering the name of the sphere of his speculation we shall find a new philosophy.
0	My wife has discovered everything.
0	There was a horrible moment.
0	She doesn’t turn out to be a spy, then?
0	Cecily is at the back watering flowers.]
0	[_The butler hands_ MRS. CHEVELEY _a cup of tea on a salver_.]
0	It is the one subject of really national importance, nowadays, Lady Stutfield.
0	It had been mad of him to have allowed the thing to remain, even for an hour, in a room to which any of his friends had access.
0	I am sure of that.
0	But I am afraid I shall never have such beautiful ideas as you have.’ “‘Oh!
0	I was afraid you were.
0	It is only half-past ten.
0	I talk them all day long.
0	I need hardly tell you that in families of high position strange coincidences are not supposed to occur.
0	Well, my name is Ernest in town and Jack in the country, and the cigarette case was given to me in the country.
0	This marriage is quite right.
0	And the Tree cried to the Nightingale to press closer against the thorn.
0	A mouse ran scuffling behind the wainscoting.
0	His morality is all sympathy, just what morality should be.
0	There are as many Hamlets as there are melancholies.
0	Dorian was one of her especial favourites, and she always told him that she was extremely glad she had not met him in early life.
0	The salt spray flew from the blades.
0	But I think that from what I have already said it is quite clear that Shakespeare was very much interested in costume.
0	How should I know?’ He said to the Linnet, ‘Thou canst fly over the tops of the tall trees, and canst see the whole world.
0	He has wit, a light touch and an amusing style.
0	So much had been surrendered!
0	You have always tried to crush my ambition, mother—haven’t you?
0	But I believe he said her family was too large.
0	You’ll think me absurd, but do you know I’ve taken a great fancy to this fan that I was silly enough to run away with last night from your ball.
0	And was it not ten years from this day?’ And the Woodcutter answered, ‘Yea, it was in the forest that I found him, and it is ten years from this day.’ ‘And what signs didst thou find with him?’ she cried.
0	I am inclined to think that I never was engaged."
0	She overemphasized everything that she had to say.
0	The vulgar directness of the question called for a direct answer.
0	When one is in the country one amuses other people.
0	"Years ago, when I was a boy," said Dorian Gray, crushing the flower in his hand, "you met me, flattered me, and taught me to be vain of my good looks.
0	What did your man talk about?
0	Considering that we have been engaged since February the 14th, and that I only met you to-day for the first time, I think it is rather hard that you should leave me for so long a period as half an hour.
0	“Shall I take him another ruby?” “Alas!
0	To speak frankly, I am not in favour of long engagements.
0	She came across to him, and with her little fingers stroked his hair.
0	But what is it, Duchess?
0	Had there been nothing more in his renunciation than that?
0	"It is in an empty stable in the Home Farm, sir.
0	But Marius is little more than a spectator: an ideal spectator indeed, and one to whom it is given 'to contemplate the spectacle of life with appropriate emotions,' which Wordsworth defines as the poet's true aim; yet a spectator merely, and perhaps a little too much occupied with the comeliness of the benches of the sanctuary to notice that it is the sanctuary of sorrow that he is gazing at.
0	Well, I would give anything to be just like Lord Illingworth.
0	She was quite beautiful and wonderfully like Sibyl Vane.
0	The world has grown so suspicious of anything that looks like a happy married life.
0	Get thee away quickly, and at sunset I will be waiting for thee at the door of the garden.
0	I hope he won’t be disappointed in me, that is all.
0	They were quite tame, and used to feed out of his hands every morning.
0	The crude commercialism of America, its materialising spirit, its indifference to the poetical side of things, and its lack of imagination and of high unattainable ideals, are entirely due to that country having adopted for its national hero a man who, according to his own confession, was incapable of telling a lie, and it is not too much to say that the story of George Washington and the cherry-tree has done more harm, and in a shorter space of time, than any other moral tale in the whole of literature.’ CYRIL.
0	I understand now what Lord Darlington meant by the imaginary instance of the couple not two years married.
0	For a moment, he thought of praying that the horrible sympathy that existed between him and the picture might cease.
0	"Of course he likes it," said Lord Henry.
0	He has been so attentive lately, that he has become a perfect nuisance.
0	And one who had separated us— LORD WINDERMERE.
0	They belong to the time when Turner was the last note in art.
0	A fly buzzed noisily about the room, and the ticking of the clock was like the beat of a hammer.
0	By woman came evil into the world.
0	Well, remember my instructions, Phipps—into that room.
0	And in all things he ruled them, and they became hard of heart even as he was.
0	It seems to circle round one centre of pain.
0	[SIR JOHN _rises and goes across_.]
0	you should have heard what she said about Mrs. Erlynne.
0	I love you— LADY WINDERMERE.
0	They were both as grotesque as the scenery, and that looked as if it had come out of a country-booth.
0	We are doomed to be solitary, while our sons still live.
0	I will not hear of such excesses.
0	Then what is to be done, Cecily?
0	In a month there will be purple stars on the clematis, and year after year the green night of its leaves will hold its purple stars.
0	Of course, I am quite ready to admit that Life very often commits the same error.
0	She told me yesterday, and in quite a loud voice too, that she was only eighteen.
0	Miss Prism has just been complaining of a slight headache.
0	He got up at once, struck a match, and looked at the time.
0	You wretched woman, must you always be thieving?
0	I cannot help telling you things.
0	Let all women who have sinned be punished.
0	The wider sympathy is, of course, the more difficult.
0	And so will you, Harry?
0	Don't spoil it by renunciations.
0	Credit is the capital of a younger son, and one lives charmingly upon it.
0	Her deafness is a great privation to her.
0	"Quite ready, James," she answered, keeping her eyes on her work.
0	No:  we have given up our belief in the soul.
0	As the painter looked at the gracious and comely form he had so skilfully mirrored in his art, a smile of pleasure passed across his face, and seemed about to linger there.
0	Art thou afraid of me, Jokanaan, that thou wilt not look at me?...
0	Mother, you believe in religion, and you brought me up to believe in it also.
0	"Stay, Harry, to oblige Dorian, and to oblige me," said Hallward, gazing intently at his picture.
0	‘And I did a strange thing, but what I did matters not, for in a valley that is but a day’s journey from this place have I hidden the Mirror of Wisdom.
0	you must become my father’s wife.
0	Just touch the bell, and when Parker comes I will tell him what you want.
0	The veil of the temple—the     unpierceable veil—is rent asunder from top to bottom, and that     dreaded recess containing the Hebrew mysteries—the fatal ark with the     tables and seven-branched candelabrum—is disclosed by the light of     unearthly flames to the God-deserted multitude.
0	Is such a mode of life immoral?
0	No, I must go, dear Agatha.
0	You don’t know what it is to fall into the pit, to be despised, mocked, abandoned, sneered at—to be an outcast!
0	I remain, Sir, your obedient servant, When "Salomé" was translated into English by Lord Alfred Douglas, the illustrator, Aubrey Beardsley, shared some of the obloquy heaped on Wilde.
0	I believe some picture of mine had made a great success at the time, at least had been chattered about in the penny newspapers, which is the nineteenth-century standard of immortality.
0	Well, it is very gratifying, dear Archdeacon, is it not, to find that Human Nature is permanently one.—On the whole, the world is the same world, is it not?
0	The Queen used to ask me about the English noble who was always quarrelling with the cabmen about their fares.
0	You were to me such an ideal as I shall never meet again.
0	At least it seemed so to me.
0	I don’t know that it is of any importance.
0	I may not touch it.
0	And thus attired he passed out of his chamber into the Great Hall, where the nobles were waiting for him.
0	What would become of our industrious compilers of Lives and Recollections in that case?
0	Parker, send my cloak out.
0	He could not bear the idea of reproaching him any more.
0	And they tell me that Windermere goes there four and five times a week—they _see_ him.
0	Here is the first passionate love-letter I have ever written in my life.
0	Many Popes have been; the bad Popes have been.
0	I see no difference between them.
0	opens on to illuminated terrace_.
0	said Lord Henry that evening as Hallward was shown into a little private room at the Bristol where dinner had been laid for three.
0	But she came not to his call, though he called to her all day long and besought her.
0	There was pity in her eyes that became laughter on her lips.
0	Only you must loose me from my oath, and must not ask of me that which you have asked of me.
0	He knew that he had tarnished himself, filled his mind with corruption and given horror to his fancy; that he had been an evil influence to others, and had experienced a terrible joy in being so; and that of the lives that had crossed his own, it had been the fairest and the most full of promise that he had brought to shame.
0	Love is all very well in its way, but friendship is much higher.
0	IT was the birthday of the Infanta.
0	Came to Madrid once when I was there.
0	It had altered already, and would alter more.
0	We women have a more subtle instinct about things.
0	If they do, what matter?
0	You are still the same."
0	It was easy enough to get in, as there was a hole in the roof.
0	And you can bring tea.
0	Your town address at the Albany I have.
0	His characters have a kind of fervent fiery-coloured existence.
0	If I am occasionally a little over-dressed, I make up for it by being always immensely over-educated.
0	But you said it was a matter of life and death."
0	He sighed, and took up the volume again, and tried to forget.
0	The majority of people spoil their lives by an unhealthy and exaggerated altruism—are forced, indeed, so to spoil them.
0	Her tears and sobs annoyed him.
0	You should have kept it and not brought it back.
0	I discern great sanity in the Greek attitude.
0	That, my dear young friend, is the theory that the corrupt French Drama has been propounding for the last fifty years.
0	I seem to know the name.
0	“What an honour!” cried all the courtiers.
0	‘At daybreak we started on our journey.
0	Whatever actually occurs is spoiled for art.
0	This seems to me a blessing of an extremely obvious kind.
0	Why don’t you try to do something useful in life?
0	He was like one of those gracious figures in a pageant or a play, whose joys seem to be remote from one, but whose sorrows stir one's sense of beauty, and whose wounds are like red roses.
0	Find expression for a joy, and you intensify its ecstasy.
0	I am aware that there are many honest workers in painting as well as in literature who object to criticism entirely.
0	And yet if it had been merely an illusion, how terrible it was to think that conscience could raise such fearful phantoms, and give them visible form, and make them move before one!
0	It must necessarily be so.
0	I want the real reason."
0	And after the year was over, the Soul thought within himself, ‘I have tempted my master with evil, and his love is stronger than I am.
0	You came, and within an hour of your leaving the house you are found in a man’s rooms—you are disgraced before every one.
0	She is a charming woman, and wants to consult you about some tapestries she is thinking of buying.
0	A map of the world that does not include Utopia is not worth even glancing at, for it leaves out the one country at which Humanity is always landing.
0	_The other men smile at each other_.]
0	Now, my dear Tuppy, don’t be led astray into the paths of virtue.
0	The keen aromatic air, the brown and red lights that glimmered in the wood, the hoarse cries of the beaters ringing out from time to time, and the sharp snaps of the guns that followed, fascinated him and filled him with a sense of delightful freedom.
0	There is something positively brutal about the good temper of most modern men.
0	Basil Hallward leaped to his feet and began to applaud.
0	"Why, it is full of dust.
0	The man upstairs will not go away.
0	That would be to fall to the same low level.
0	It is to the soul that Art speaks, and the soul may be made the prisoner of the mind as well as of the body.
0	Now, I have never regarded woman as a toy.
0	Robert, I cannot tell you what she wished you to think.
0	And you see now, Ernest, that the critic has at his disposal as many objective forms of expression as the artist has.
0	[_With a gesture of despair_.]
0	Nor is it merely that we can discern in Christ that close union of personality with perfection which forms the real distinction between the classical and romantic movement in life, but the very basis of his nature was the same as that of the nature of the artist--an intense and flamelike imagination.
0	But I’ll come round to-morrow morning.
0	"Mr. Isaacs has advanced us fifty pounds to pay off our debts and to get a proper outfit for James.
0	Yes, here is the injury it received through the upsetting of a Gower Street omnibus in younger and happier days.
0	He speaks like a drunken man.
0	said Lord Henry, strolling over to the table and putting his cup down.
0	Nature pales before the furniture of ‘the street which from Oxford has borrowed its name,’ as the poet you love so much once vilely phrased it.
0	Have I not thanked you for saving _me_?
0	We are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars?
0	I said to you some time ago that it was far more difficult to talk about a thing than to do it.
0	You shall sit by me and amuse me."
0	Shall I see you at Lady Bonar’s to-night?
0	‘I can easily put it in repair, as I have a plank of wood in the house.’ “‘A plank of wood!’ said the Miller; ‘why, that is just what I want for the roof of my barn.
0	As for the Infanta, she absolutely fascinated him.
0	It is but for a little thing, and the merchants have mocked at me, and denied me.
0	And his Soul gave a great cry of joy and ran to meet him, and entered into him, and the young Fisherman saw stretched before him upon the sand that shadow of the body that is the body of the Soul.
0	I cannot answer you now.
0	how I shall play it!
0	Despotism is unjust to everybody, including the despot, who was probably made for better things.
0	Your nephew and I are great friends.
0	By revealing to us the absolute mechanism of all action, and so freeing us from the self-imposed and trammelling burden of moral responsibility, the scientific principle of Heredity has become, as it were, the warrant for the contemplative life.
0	He spoke of the matter at great length, and I am sure he must have been right, for he had blue spectacles and a bald head, and whenever the young man made any remark, he always answered ‘Pooh!’ But pray go on with your story.
0	Well, now I am really beginning to feel more regret for the people who laughed than for myself.
0	But a really _grande passion_ is comparatively rare nowadays.
0	It would have been an excellent lesson both for him and for you if I had.
0	You have no country houses, I am told, in America?
0	Princess, I cannot, I cannot.
0	But the reckless dissipated life of his companions failed to satisfy the refined artistic temperament of one who was made for other things.
0	We will smoke cigarettes and drink to the beauty of Sibyl Vane.
0	That is what the world calls a romance.
0	Dorian heaved a sigh of relief as he saw the gardener approaching.
0	His soul, certainly, was sick to death.
0	That is always a sign of despair in a woman.
0	This is no place for you.
0	He means you no good."
0	Margaret, you could save this woman.
0	In the huge gilt Venetian lantern, spoil of some Doge's barge, that hung from the ceiling of the great, oak-panelled hall of entrance, lights were still burning from three flickering jets: thin blue petals of flame they seemed, rimmed with white fire.
0	“But somehow he was never able to look after his flowers at all, for his friend the Miller was always coming round and sending him off on long errands, or getting him to help at the mill.
0	[Picture: Decorative graphic of windmill and overturned barrow] The Remarkable Rocket.
0	His objections, however, were completely overruled, and I believe that when he walked up the aisle of St. George's, Hanover Square, with his daughter leaning on his arm, there was not a prouder man in the whole length and breadth of England.
0	They walked softly, as men do instinctively at night.
0	"You must give me some answer to these horrible charges that are made against you.
0	Fortunately I don’t know what bimetallism means.
0	Learned conversation is either the affectation of the ignorant or the profession of the mentally unemployed.
0	Or the desire for a new sensation, as Lord Henry had hinted, with his mocking laugh?
0	His virtues are not real to him.
0	So that is poor Dumby with Lady Plymdale?
0	A Miss Fairfax has just called to see Mr. Worthing.
0	[Picture: Book cover]                        [Picture: The Happy Prince]                              The Happy Prince                              And Other Tales                                 * * * * *                                 * * * * *                                 * * * * * _First Edition_         _May_ 1888 _Second Impression_     _January_ 1889 _Third Impression_      _February_ 1902 _Fourth Impression_     _September_ 1905 _Fifth Impression_      _February_ 1907 _Sixth Impression_      _March_ 1908 _Seventh Impression_    _March_ 1910                                 * * * * *                                 * * * * *                 [Picture: Decorative graphic of children] Contents.
0	Bid my mother speak to me once.’  But the leper answered him not a word.
0	The thing was still seated in the chair, straining over the table with bowed head, and humped back, and long fantastic arms.
0	I pray you not to look at her.
0	It is grossly selfish to require of ones neighbour that he should think in the same way, and hold the same opinions.
0	As for the twins, he was quite determined to teach them a lesson.
0	I have grown to love secrecy.
0	A letter gravely compromising one’s position.
0	You have been talking of criticism as an essential part of the creative spirit, and I now fully accept your theory.
0	[_To the page._] My fan!
0	Each mind is a weapon loaded to the muzzle with will.
0	What do you mean by saying that Nature is always behind the age?
0	"Harry is never wrong, Duchess."
0	I will trust you absolutely.
0	But I fear it is too late!
0	[_Motions to him with her fan to sit down again beside her_.]
0	Regret, denial, or forgetfulness could do that.
0	More than this, there is about sorrow an intense, an extraordinary reality.
0	He hesitated for some moments, with a strangely immobile smile upon his face.
0	But of this I think I have spoken at sufficient length.
0	And he who came after him ruled evilly.
0	My own decision, however, is unalterable.
0	Mediævalism, with its saints and martyrs, its love of self-torture, its wild passion for wounding itself, its gashing with knives, and its whipping with rods—Mediævalism is real Christianity, and the mediæval Christ is the real Christ.
0	"You must come and dine with me soon again.
0	He thought of the Dowager Duchess, whom he had frightened into a fit as she stood before the glass in her lace and diamonds; of the four housemaids, who had gone into hysterics when he merely grinned at them through the curtains on one of the spare bedrooms; of the rector of the parish, whose candle he had blown out as he was coming late one night from the library, and who had been under the care of Sir William Gull ever since, a perfect martyr to nervous disorders; and of old Madame de Tremouillac, who, having wakened up one morning early and seen a skeleton seated in an armchair by the fire reading her diary, had been confined to her bed for six weeks with an attack of brain fever, and, on her recovery, had become reconciled to the Church, and broken off her connection with that notorious sceptic, Monsieur de Voltaire.
0	SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _is standing in front of the fireplace_.
0	I am going to ring for my servant.
0	You won't be able to disappear to London quite so frequently as your wicked custom was.
0	Whenever a man does a thoroughly stupid thing, it is always from the noblest motives."
0	That such a change should have taken place was incredible to him.
0	Oh, if I had remembered her I should not have been so foolish, so wicked.
0	It seems as if we had only just left.
0	It is very romantic to be in love.
0	You expect me to believe that?
0	I can't bear looking at things.
0	It was really only a little linnet singing outside his window, but it was so long since he had heard a bird sing in his garden that it seemed to him to be the most beautiful music in the world.
0	The first thing to be done was, of course, to sit upon their chests, so as to produce the stifling sensation of nightmare.
0	MRS. CHEVELEY _seem rather amused_.]
0	In "De Profundis" he says: "The refrains, whose recurring motifs make 'Salomé' so like a piece of music, and bind it together as a ballad."
0	Might there not be some curious scientific reason for it all?
0	He loved Alain Chartier, and Ronsard, and the Elizabethan dramatists, and Chaucer and Chapman, and Petrarch.
0	Is he an old man, this prophet?
0	A white dust--tremulous cloud of orris-root it seemed--hung in the panting air.
0	I should have been spared then the misery, the anxiety, the annoyance of the last six months.
0	The Autumn gave golden fruit to every garden, but to the Giant’s garden she gave none.
0	But this is not all.
0	They affect us just as vulgarity affects us.
0	And a cry of joy broke from his lips, and he ran over, and kneeling down he kissed the wounds on his mother’s feet, and wet them with his tears.
0	But how could he do both, dear?
0	[_Gets up to take her fan from table_.]
0	Don’t let us discuss anything solemnly.
0	Discontent is the first step in the progress of a man or a nation.
0	"You don't understand her, Harry.
0	Nature has good intentions, of course, but, as Aristotle once said, she cannot carry them out.
0	He took them, and shaped them into song.
0	"Yes, you are the same.
0	I will deny the whole affair from beginning to end.
0	Then I will go and see him myself, and tell him that a certain letter, written on pink paper, is to be forwarded to Robert to-day, and that at all costs it must not reach him.
0	There is the lady who can tell you who you really are.
0	But then Robert was a genius, and you have a noble, self-sacrificing character.
0	Yellow crow's feet would creep round the fading eyes and make them horrible.
0	I was brought up like that.
0	And beauty is a form of genius--is higher, indeed, than genius, as it needs no explanation.
0	And so it may be some day with Charles Lamb’s friend.
0	The extravagant use of the arms in the eighteenth century, for instance, was the necessary result of the large hoop, and the solemn dignity of Burleigh owed as much to his ruff as to his reason.
0	It means everything to me—things that were out of the reach of hope before may be within hope’s reach now.
0	Look at me, Narraboth, look at me.
0	You were stern, harsh, offensive.
0	Whether or not a quarrel had taken place between them no one ever knew.
0	Ah, I forgot, your husband is an exception.
0	Some of us are, at least.
0	But I am going to buy them all back again now.’ “‘Hans,’ said the Miller, ‘I will give you my wheelbarrow.
0	At half-past ten he heard the family going to bed.
0	Her little feet pattered overhead.
0	Only last night at dear Lady Jansen’s every one was saying how extraordinary it was that, of all men in London, Windermere should behave in such a way.
0	But it seems very unfair.
0	They are so like them that a hundred years from now no one will believe in them.
0	"It is a most romantic explanation," laughed the hostess.
0	Man should not be ready to show that he can live like a badly-fed animal.
0	Charity they feel to be a ridiculously inadequate mode of partial restitution, or a sentimental dole, usually accompanied by some impertinent attempt on the part of the sentimentalist to tyrannise over their private lives.
0	And you needed love, for you were weakly, and only love could have kept you alive.
0	A moment may ruin a life.
0	He piled another log on it.
0	The demands on the time of a public man are very heavy nowadays, very heavy indeed.
0	And her voice--I never heard such a voice.
0	But though a crime may not be against property, it may spring from the misery and rage and depression produced by our wrong system of property-holding, and so, when that system is abolished, will disappear.
0	It is a very degrading position for any body of educated men to be placed in, and I have no doubt that most of them feel it acutely.
0	Here and there over the grass stood beautiful flowers like stars, and there were twelve peach-trees that in the spring-time broke out into delicate blossoms of pink and pearl, and in the autumn bore rich fruit.
0	And now that thou art dead, surely I will die with thee also.’ And his Soul besought him to depart, but he would not, so great was his love.
0	Could it be that what that soul thought, they realized?--that what it dreamed, they made true?
0	This is the reason why music is the perfect type of art.
0	He sat on the mast of a large vessel and watched the sailors hauling big chests out of the hold with ropes.
0	[_In a very serious voice_.]
0	[_Puts on_ LORD CAVERSHAM’S _cloak for him_.]
0	The joy of a caged bird was in her voice.
0	I must get it arranged and put straight before you go into it.
0	A hideous Jew, in the most amazing waistcoat I ever beheld in my life, was standing at the entrance, smoking a vile cigar.
0	And so a child could.
0	I never talk during music--at least, during good music.
0	They whisper into my ears the tale of their perilous joys.
0	Now, my dear boy, if we want to get a good table at Willis's, we really must go and dress.
0	She is sure to tell him.
0	"It will take about five hours," he answered.
0	One of the prettiest hats I ever saw.
0	You are the best woman God ever made.
0	Thou didst put upon thine eyes the covering of him who would see his God.
0	And what did she mean by boasting that she had got you to lend your support, your name, to a thing I have heard you describe as the most dishonest and fraudulent scheme there has ever been in political life?
0	Dorian, you mustn't let this thing get on your nerves.
0	And after all, Sir Robert, why should you sacrifice your entire future rather than deal diplomatically with your enemy?
0	His friend died the next day in his presence, and he left Boulogne at once for a sketching tour through the most picturesque parts of Brittany, and was for some time the guest of an old French gentleman, who had a beautiful country house at St. Omer.
0	What pleasure could you have in it?
0	But we never took any notice of them, I need hardly say.
0	His father made a great fortune by selling some kind of food in circular tins—most palatable, I believe—I fancy it is the thing the servants always refuse to eat.
0	Where the huge velarium that Nero had stretched across the Colosseum at Rome, that Titan sail of purple on which was represented the starry sky, and Apollo driving a chariot drawn by white, gilt-reined steeds?
0	I have been out of England for so long.
0	There is nothing like race, is there?
0	An Armenian in a caftan of green leather peered through the wicket, and when he saw them he opened, and spread a carpet on the ground, and the woman stepped out.
0	The fact that the greatest tragic actress of any stage       now living saw in my play such beauty that she was       anxious to produce it, to take herself the part of the       heroine, to lend to the entire poem the glamour of her       personality, and to my prose the music of her       flute-like voice--this was naturally, and always will       be, a source of pride and pleasure to me, and I look       forward with delight to seeing Mme.
0	“She has form,” he said to himself, as he walked away through the grove—“that cannot be denied to her; but has she got feeling?
0	Even as a beginning, it is poor.
0	That is the special vice of the age.
0	In the wild struggle for existence, we want to have something that endures, and so we fill our minds with rubbish and facts, in the silly hope of keeping our place.
0	For the Greek gods, in spite of the white and red of their fair fleet limbs, were not really what they appeared to be.
0	I do not know whether there is anything peculiarly exciting in the air of this particular part of Hertfordshire, but the number of engagements that go on seems to me considerably above the proper average that statistics have laid down for our guidance.
0	It would leave no room for developments, and I intend to develop in many directions.
0	All rare and costly materials had certainly a great fascination for him, and in his eagerness to procure them he had sent away many merchants, some to traffic for amber with the rough fisher-folk of the north seas, some to Egypt to look for that curious green turquoise which is found only in the tombs of kings, and is said to possess magical properties, some to Persia for silken carpets and painted pottery, and others to India to buy gauze and stained ivory, moonstones and bracelets of jade, sandal-wood and blue enamel and shawls of fine wool.
0	By its means, too, he can invent an imaginary antagonist, and convert him when he chooses by some absurdly sophistical argument.
0	For I have come, not from obscurity into the momentary notoriety of crime, but from a sort of eternity of fame to a sort of eternity of infamy, and sometimes seem to myself to have shown, if indeed it required showing, that between the famous and the infamous there is but one step, if as much as one.
0	I see no reason why our dear Cecily should not be even still more attractive at the age you mention than she is at present.
0	I had quite forgotten that point.
0	"I am not laughing, Dorian; at least I am not laughing at you.
0	"SALOMÉ" has made the author's name a household word wherever the English language is not spoken.
0	Yet he had not dreamed at all.
0	The big leather riding-boots that went with the dress were just a little too large for him, and he could only find one of the two horse-pistols, but, on the whole, he was quite satisfied, and at a quarter-past one he glided out of the wainscoting and crept down the corridor.
0	And so when I got this offer from Paris, I determined to make your portrait the principal thing in my exhibition.
0	How remote was the writer from what Matthew Arnold calls 'the Secret of Jesus.'
0	The secret of life is never to have an emotion that is unbecoming.
0	Miss Prism: Mrs. George Canninge.
0	[Picture: Decorative graphic of nightingale and rose] The Selfish Giant.
0	After I left you yesterday evening, Harry, I dressed, had some dinner at that little Italian restaurant in Rupert Street you introduced me to, and went down at eight o'clock to the theatre.
0	It would mean that I would always be haunted by an intolerable sense of disgrace, and that those things that are meant for me as much as for anybody else--the beauty of the sun and moon, the pageant of the seasons, the music of daybreak and the silence of great nights, the rain falling through the leaves, or the dew creeping over the grass and making it silver--would all be tainted for me, and lose their healing power, and their power of communicating joy.
0	We weep, but we are not wounded.
0	_In her accents at she talks there is a note of deep tragedy_.
0	It would be an additional attraction, wouldn’t it?
0	Campbell was always either at Selby Royal or in Grosvenor Square.
0	A dark gulf is betwixt us.
0	I know it was the same year in which my brother had his last exposure in the evening newspapers.
0	My dear mother, it all sounds very tragic, of course.
0	"What has the actual lapse of time got to do with it?
0	He has set his heart on going.
0	So he stole quietly across, and drew it aside.
0	Mr. Ruskin once described the characters in George Eliot’s novels as being like the sweepings of a Pentonville omnibus, but M. Zola’s characters are much worse.
0	They are what modern life has contributed to the antique ideal of friendship.
0	Arthur, it seems that I am always to be in your debt.
0	He told him of the red ibises, who stand in long rows on the banks of the Nile, and catch gold-fish in their beaks; of the Sphinx, who is as old as the world itself, and lives in the desert, and knows everything; of the merchants, who walk slowly by the side of their camels, and carry amber beads in their hands; of the King of the Mountains of the Moon, who is as black as ebony, and worships a large crystal; of the great green snake that sleeps in a palm-tree, and has twenty priests to feed it with honey-cakes; and of the pygmies who sail over a big lake on large flat leaves, and are always at war with the butterflies.
0	He stopped suddenly, and a gleam of light came into his eyes.
0	Thank Heaven I am in time.
0	Let us go within, I tell you.
0	I am much obliged for your kindness in coming round."
0	No, Gerald, no ceremony, Church-hallowed or State-made, shall ever bind me to George Harford.
0	As for being poisoned by a book, there is no such thing as that.
0	I might be able to learn how to tie a tie, Lord Illingworth, but I should never be able to talk as you do.
0	She sang of the big whales that come down from the north seas and have sharp icicles hanging to their fins; of the Sirens who tell of such wonderful things that the merchants have to stop their ears with wax lest they should hear them, and leap into the water and be drowned; of the sunken galleys with their tall masts, and the frozen sailors clinging to the rigging, and the mackerel swimming in and out of the open portholes; of the little barnacles who are great travellers, and cling to the keels of the ships and go round and round the world; and of the cuttlefish who live in the sides of the cliffs and stretch out their long black arms, and can make night come when they will it.
0	You knew that to spare her the ignominy of learning that a woman like you was her mother, I would endure anything.
0	I have still the mask.
0	"I like men who have a future and women who have a past," he answered.
0	And now I am going to sell you that letter, and the price I ask for it is your public support of the Argentine scheme.
0	I don’t know what keeps the gentlemen so long.
0	It does not do to pepper beaters.
0	[Lady Bracknell bows coldly to Cecily.]
0	It is a rather interesting word.
0	HTML version by Al Haines.
0	And now, dear Lady Windermere, I am afraid it is really good-bye.
0	But then one regrets the loss even of one's worst habits.
0	I had no idea of doing anything of the kind when I entered.
0	No other woman has any place in my life.
0	Her prince, Prince Charming, was with her.
0	I wish to see it," he said, clutching at the door-post for support.
0	After reading it, one does not wonder any longer that Alexandria devoted itself so largely to art-criticism, and that we find the artistic temperaments of the day investigating every question of style and manner, discussing the great Academic schools of painting, for instance, such as the school of Sicyon, that sought to preserve the dignified traditions of the antique mode, or the realistic and impressionist schools, that aimed at reproducing actual life, or the elements of ideality in portraiture, or the artistic value of the epic form in an age so modern as theirs, or the proper subject-matter for the artist.
0	I remember myself once—But it is no matter now.
0	And that their dress was not that of wealthy noblemen may be seen by Orlando’s words when he breaks in upon them.
0	Do not look at her.
0	And that was the result of the Indian climate, and marriage, and indigestion, and other things of that kind.
0	"What do you think has happened to Basil?"
0	Why, even Sleep has played us false, and has closed up the gates of ivory, and opened the gates of horn.
0	[_Again tears at the bracelet in a paroxysm of rage_, _with inarticulate sounds_.
0	But the thorn had not yet reached her heart, so the rose’s heart remained white, for only a Nightingale’s heart’s-blood can crimson the heart of a rose.
0	I am under the impression that my lawyer settled that matter with you on certain terms .
0	A most attractive woman, and has such sensible views on life.
0	And when we reach the true culture that is our aim, we attain to that perfection of which the saints have dreamed, the perfection of those to whom sin is impossible, not because they make the renunciations of the ascetic, but because they can do everything they wish without hurt to the soul, and can wish for nothing that can do the soul harm, the soul being an entity so divine that it is able to transform into elements of a richer experience, or a finer susceptibility, or a newer mode of thought, acts or passions that with the common would be commonplace, or with the uneducated ignoble, or with the shameful vile.
0	It would be rather a good name for the modern husband.
0	All beautiful things belong to the same age.
0	Dorian Gray never took his gaze off him, but sat like one under a spell, smiles chasing each other over his lips and wonder growing grave in his darkening eyes.
0	Every day, when I give him to eat he thanks me.
0	My dear Margaret, you are not going to cry?
0	It was very good of you to receive her last night—but you are never to see her again.
0	I am sorry to say Mrs. Arbuthnot comes very rarely to me.
0	We praise the banker that we may overdraw our account, and find good qualities in the highwayman in the hope that he may spare our pockets.
0	You are more to me than innocence.
0	_It would be inaccurate to call him picturesque_.
0	Wordsworth saw in _Endymion_ merely a pretty piece of Paganism, and Shelley, with his dislike of actuality, was deaf to Wordsworth’s message, being repelled by its form, and Byron, that great passionate human incomplete creature, could appreciate neither the poet of the cloud nor the poet of the lake, and the wonder of Keats was hidden from him.
0	I think it would be an admirable opportunity.
0	Had he been articulate, he might have sat beside him.
0	He was not clever enough to have enemies.
0	Therefore come with me, for I have a guest-chamber.’ So the young Fisherman rose up and followed the merchant to his house.
0	It is of my mother that he speaks.
0	I wish you could come to the theatre to-night.
0	It is part of myself.
0	They have straight black beards, and their turbans are covered with golden sequins, and long strings of amber and carved peach-stones glide through their cool fingers.
0	‘He bowed his head in wonder, and, taking me by the hand, he raised me up, and led me into the temple.
0	The only difference is that your moods are rather meaningless.
0	She stole my letter and sent it anonymously to you this morning, that you should think .
0	For a moment I thought of following you there.
0	He is on the terrace at this moment with Lord Illingworth.
0	‘In France, though nothing so deliberately tedious as _Robert Elsmere_ has been produced, things are not much better.
0	What they mean by these words seems to me to be this.
0	You can lie on the grass and smoke and talk.
0	"_Trop d'audace_, I tell her," said Dorian.
0	"I don't wish to know anything about them.
0	I feel quite sure of that.
0	I want to be amused.
0	She has flowers that no forests know of, birds that no woodland possesses.
0	After some time, he thrust away his plate and put his head in his hands.
0	It is like surrendering a part of them.
0	You are hard on her, Harry!"
0	and this body, what does this body here?
0	They tempt me with temptations, and when I would pray they make mouths at me.
0	It was a rather curious one of Moorish workmanship, made of dull silver inlaid with arabesques of burnished steel, and studded with coarse turquoises.
0	Considered from the point of view of a creator of character he ranks next to him who made Hamlet.
0	Illustrated by Wallace Goldsmith John W. Luce and Company Boston and London I When Mr. Hiram B. Otis, the American Minister, bought Canterville Chase, every one told him he was doing a very foolish thing, as there was no doubt at all that the place was haunted.
0	“Well, after all there is nothing like mud.
0	However, I am delighted at what you tell me about Robert, thoroughly delighted.
0	It is really a degrading concession to a low form of realism.
0	He was brilliant, fantastic, irresponsible.
0	A chance phrase that he had heard at the theatre, a whispered sneer that had reached his ears one night as he waited at the stage-door, had set loose a train of horrible thoughts.
0	I made answer that I was a Dervish and on my way to the city of Mecca, where there was a green veil on which the Koran was embroidered in silver letters by the hands of the angels.
0	I am not really wicked at all, cousin Cecily.
0	I am obliged to go up by the first train on Monday morning.
0	I want to have a charming house here.
0	He was not discontented till he met you.
0	And so, to return to the sphere of Art, it is Form that creates not merely the critical temperament, but also the æsthetic instinct, that unerring instinct that reveals to one all things under their conditions of beauty.
0	A woman in a fluttering shawl was creeping slowly by the railings, staggering as she went.
0	I went down the primrose path to the sound of flutes.
0	And after that they had gone a league from the city, the young Fisherman frowned, and flung the cup away, and said to his Soul, ‘Why didst thou tell me to take this cup and hide it, for it was an evil thing to do?’ But his Soul answered him, ‘Be at peace, be at peace.’ And on the evening of the second day they came to a city, and the young Fisherman said to his Soul, ‘Is this the city in which she dances of whom thou didst speak to me?’ And his Soul answered him, ‘It is not this city, but another.
0	I have heard the most shocking things about her.
0	Good-bye a second time; I see my daughters in the distance and the little Frog swam away.
0	Nothing will induce me to stir a step to help you.
0	Well, will you go if I change my clothes?
0	When you see Sibyl Vane, you will feel that the man who could wrong her would be a beast, a beast without a heart.
0	When they had finished, Mr. Otis, in spite of the entreaties of the little Duke, ordered them all to bed, saying that nothing more could be done that night, and that he would telegraph in the morning to Scotland Yard for some detectives to be sent down immediately.
0	he has written a satire against them?
0	They rage against Materialism, as they call it, forgetting that there has been no material improvement that has not spiritualised the world, and that there have been few, if any, spiritual awakenings that have not wasted the world’s faculties in barren hopes, and fruitless aspirations, and empty or trammelling creeds.
0	The lad started and drew back.
0	I find them so amusing.
0	Her guests this evening were rather tedious.
0	In defending myself against Mrs. Cheveley, I have a right to use any weapon I can find, have I not?
0	It is sick with many maladies, and has memories of curious sins.
0	She is ever giving you evil counsel.
0	I am afraid, too, that Lord Illingworth regards woman simply as a toy.
0	Of course I am sorry to leave you.
0	You have filled my tea with lumps of sugar, and though I asked most distinctly for bread and butter, you have given me cake.
0	And when winter came upon it, he would still be standing where spring trembles on the verge of summer.
0	My heart shall never be put under their microscope.
0	You cannot understand what a wonderful chance the Baron gave me.
0	You saw your hideous chance.
0	"It is quite true, Dorian," said Lord Henry, gravely.
0	They have marred themselves by imitation of their inferiors.
0	Surely we will slay him, for he is unworthy to rule over us.’ And the young King bowed his head again, and prayed, and when he had finished his prayer he rose up, and turning round he looked at them sadly.
0	The sunlight slipped over the polished leaves.
0	That would be the last Earl but one.
0	He turned and looked at Dorian Gray with the eyes of a sick man.
0	Surely not, my dear fellow?
0	Is it not true, Tigellinus, that the philosophers at Rome kill themselves?
0	Decline a seat in the Cabinet, and retire from public life?
0	She is like a woman rising from a tomb.
0	Close to your hand lies a little volume, bound in some Nile-green skin that has been powdered with gilded nenuphars and smoothed with hard ivory.
0	Neither Holbein nor Vandyck found in England what they have given us.
0	How very selfish of you!
0	And everybody is predestined to his presence.
0	But I am much obliged for the compliment, all the same.
0	Windermere, don’t you think the world an intensely amusing place?
0	_Her hands_, _outstretched_, _seem to tremble in the air like blossoms in the mind_.
0	It was the farthest corner of the garden, and in it was standing a little boy.
0	The love that he bore him--for it was really love--had nothing in it that was not noble and intellectual.
0	Women defend themselves by attacking, just as they attack by sudden and strange surrenders.
0	Basil Hallward had left the house at eleven.
0	There is just one question I would like to be allowed to ask my guardian.
0	He tugged at the thin ropes, and nearer and nearer came the circle of flat corks, and the net rose at last to the top of the water.
0	But think merely of one perfect little work of æsthetic criticism, Aristotle’s _Treatise on Poetry_.
0	I met his father yesterday in St. James's Street.
0	what a trivial view of life!” said the Rocket; “but it is only what I expected.
0	They are like black holes burned by torches in a Tyrian tapestry.
0	You have lived since then."
0	In fact, property is really a nuisance.
0	Who told you I had left the house you were shameless enough to enter?
0	[_Signs name_, _puts letter into envelope_, _addresses it_, _and is about to seal it_, _when door_ L.C.
0	I say that you are sterile.
0	Of course I have not talked morality to you.
0	I don't know what made me say it.
0	_He picks up one of the gloves, and begins pulling it on_.]
0	Then I should be happy.
0	Could the shadows of things have colour and life and movement?
0	When he says, 'Forgive your enemies,' it is not for the sake of the enemy, but for one's own sake that he says so, and because love is more beautiful than hate.
0	The painter had been busy mixing his colours and getting his brushes ready.
0	Every evening he went out upon the sea, and one evening the net was so heavy that hardly could he draw it into the boat.
0	His finely chiselled nostrils quivered, and some hidden nerve shook the scarlet of his lips and left them trembling.
0	The blood-stain has been much admired by tourists and others, and cannot be removed."
0	Criticism will annihilate race-prejudices, by insisting upon the unity of the human mind in the variety of its forms.
0	In about five minutes his valet appeared, half-dressed and looking very drowsy.
0	It is only his wife.
0	I may not touch it.
0	this is just where the artistic life leads a man!'
0	It is a wonderful opening for me, isn’t it?
0	You owe to it your fortune and position.
0	I quite forget what Lord Henry Weston said of you—but it was most complimentary, and you know what an authority he is on beauty.
0	It was remarked, however, that some of those who had been most intimate with him appeared, after a time, to shun him.
0	Bachelors are not fashionable any more.
0	As he looked back upon man moving through history, he was haunted by a feeling of loss.
0	Anybody can sympathise with the sufferings of a friend, but it requires a very fine nature—it requires, in fact, the nature of a true Individualist—to sympathise with a friend’s success.
0	Lord Canterville was the chief mourner, having come up specially from Wales to attend the funeral, and sat in the first carriage along with little Virginia.
0	You are so different from the other women here.
0	In one single ivory cell of the brain there are stored away things more marvellous and more terrible than even they have dreamed of, who, like the author of _Le Rouge et le Noir_, have sought to track the soul into its most secret places, and to make life confess its dearest sins.
0	I didn't intend to tell it to you."
0	Never have I seen her so pale.
0	You have a wonderful power of selection.
0	He had greasy ringlets, and an enormous diamond blazed in the centre of a soiled shirt.
0	That white quivering sunlight that one sees now in France, with its strange blotches of mauve, and its restless violet shadows, is her latest fancy, and, on the whole, Nature reproduces it quite admirably.
0	The designs, which were from the hands of the most famous artists of the time, had been submitted to him many months before, and he had given orders that the artificers were to toil night and day to carry them out, and that the whole world was to be searched for jewels that would be worthy of their work.
0	Suddenly they were taken away from me by the law.
0	The moment Art surrenders its imaginative medium it surrenders everything.
0	How long could you love a woman who didn’t love you, Cecil?
0	Indeed it is only in England that such a book could be produced.
0	It kissed it with like kisses, and pressed it to its heart with horrible gestures.
0	The mere thought made him cold with horror.
0	For, as Polonius says in his excellent lecture, a lecture to which I am glad to have the opportunity of expressing my obligations, one of the first qualities of apparel is its expressiveness.
0	There was probably no one on board in whom he would have found a sympathetic listener, or even a psychologically interesting nature.
0	Lord Henry shook his head.
0	Poor dear Hunstanton used to tell me I didn’t blush nearly often enough.
0	His dominant intellectual passion was for science.
0	"Quite finished," said the painter.
0	She has gone to bed.
0	[_Coming round and sitting R. of her_.]
0	asked the elder of the two gentlemen.
0	Personality is a very mysterious thing.
0	That makes it all the more bitter.
0	But the Tree cried to the Nightingale to press closer against the thorn.
0	You look as if you had toothache, and I have got such a surprise for you.
0	But he has been most pleasant.
0	I suppose he wants to ask you what flowers you wish to have on the table to-night.
0	But the funniest part of the whole morning’s entertainment, was undoubtedly the dancing of the little Dwarf.
0	"I wish I knew," she said at last.
0	That’s just the word, dear; that just describes it.
0	And as I fought the age with its own weapons, I will fight her with her weapons.
0	There are also entries of Spanish, Moorish and Danish costumes, of helmets, lances, painted shields, imperial crowns, and papal tiaras, as well as of costumes for Turkish Janissaries, Roman Senators, and all the gods and goddesses of Olympus, which evidence a good deal of archæological research on the part of the manager of the theatre.
0	Men marry because they are tired; women, because they are curious:  both are disappointed."
0	The truths of metaphysics are the truths of masks.
0	Was it the taste of blood?...
0	It is the ages that are her symbols.
0	You can't possibly ask me to go without having some dinner.
0	The only way to get rid of a temptation is to yield to it.
0	It shows he has got pluck.
0	Fortunately, in England at any rate, thought is not catching.
0	It will interest you enormously.
0	He had chosen to do it.
0	Well, I wish you would offer one.
0	Robert, believe me, you are wrong.
0	My dear Mrs. Cheveley, what do you mean?
0	I never take any notice of what common people say, and I never interfere with what charming people do.
0	"Mr. Campbell, sir," said the man.
0	Unconsciously he defines for me the lines of a fresh school, a school that is to have in it all the passion of the romantic spirit, all the perfection of the spirit that is Greek.
0	I can now recreate life in a way that was hidden from me before.
0	His feeling of terror had passed away, and curiosity had taken its place.
0	The lad started, as if awakened from some dream.
0	_Then suddenly stops_, _and bows rather distantly_.]
0	[Picture: Decorative graphic of young man kissing the princess’ hand] At the gate of the Castle the Prince was waiting to receive her.
0	Besides, how do you know that Hetty isn't floating at the present moment in some starlit mill-pond, with lovely water-lilies round her, like Ophelia?"
0	She is all the great heroines of the world in one.
0	You mustn’t laugh, I am quite serious.
0	I sometimes pass a whole day without coming across a single one.
0	But in some curious way--I wonder will you understand me?--his personality has suggested to me an entirely new manner in art, an entirely new mode of style.
0	But none of you have any hearts.
0	My lips moved towards hers.
0	They do so on the ground that such charity degrades and demoralises.
0	I mean it naturally is Ernest.
0	[He kisses her, she puts her fingers through his hair.]
0	Yes, a nation of art-critics.
0	The little supper with his companions, one of whom has already sold him for a price; the anguish in the quiet moon-lit garden; the false friend coming close to him so as to betray him with a kiss; the friend who still believed in him, and on whom as on a rock he had hoped to build a house of refuge for Man, denying him as the bird cried to the dawn; his own utter loneliness, his submission, his acceptance of everything; and along with it all such scenes as the high priest of orthodoxy rending his raiment in wrath, and the magistrate of civil justice calling for water in the vain hope of cleansing himself of that stain of innocent blood that makes him the scarlet figure of history; the coronation ceremony of sorrow, one of the most wonderful things in the whole of recorded time; the crucifixion of the Innocent One before the eyes of his mother and of the disciple whom he loved; the soldiers gambling and throwing dice for his clothes; the terrible death by which he gave the world its most eternal symbol; and his final burial in the tomb of the rich man, his body swathed in Egyptian linen with costly spices and perfumes as though he had been a king's son.
0	To-day thou shalt bring me the piece of white gold, and if thou bringest it not back, I will beat thee with a hundred stripes.
0	For curiosity's sake he had tried the denial of self.
0	Also he has promised me to summon to Rome the King of Cappadocia, who is my enemy.
0	"Very well," he said at last, "but don't be too long dressing."
0	I felt a great curiosity come over me.
0	She doesn’t care much for eloquence in others.
0	Mrs. Vane winced and put her thin, bismuth-whitened hands on her daughter's head.
0	Was there anything so real as words?
0	It may be asked, what has this to do with Shakespeare’s attitude towards costume?
0	I don’t at all like knowing what people say of me behind my back.
0	I have not read it yet, Harry.
0	I would to God I had died before I had been so horribly tempted, or had fallen so low.
0	"I hope you will always be very happy, Dorian," said Hallward, "but I don't quite forgive you for not having let me know of your engagement.
0	I must be far more of an individualist than ever I was.
0	She lived her finest tragedy.
0	Yes, madam—her ladyship told me she had left a letter for his lordship on the table.
0	She doesn’t really love you then?
0	As many Hamlets as there are melancholies?
0	Lord Illingworth is a successful man.
0	[_Catches sight of_ LADY CHILTERN’S _letter_, _the cover of which is just showing from under the blotting-book_.]
0	The harmony of soul and body--how much that is!
0	It is merely provisional and a protest.
0	And when he came to the Magician’s house, the Magician opened to him, and brought him in, and said to him, ‘Hast thou the piece of yellow gold?’ And the Star-Child said to him, ‘I have it not.’  So the Magician fell upon him, and beat him, and loaded him with chains, and cast him again into the dungeon.
0	They are the only things that are never serious.
0	Bid him come forth, that he may hear the voice of him who hath cried in the waste places and in the houses of kings.
0	They have a right to demand it back."
0	He leaves that to the popular novelist.
0	Perfect accuracy of detail, for the sake of perfect illusion, is necessary for us.
0	I am glad you admit it.
0	I think I shall keep it.
0	Her ladyship has just gone out of the house.
0	I am quite ready for more.
0	She heaved a deep sigh.
0	Have you any other reason, Mrs. Arbuthnot, why you don’t wish your son to accept this post?
0	The perfect naturalness of the scene was due to the absolute accuracy and appropriateness of everything that was worn.
0	As the minutes went by he became horribly agitated.
0	When the Renaissance dawned upon the world, and brought with it the new ideals of the beauty of life and the joy of living, men could not understand Christ.
0	It is you who are sterile, not I.
0	What between the duties expected of one during one's lifetime, and the duties exacted from one after one's death, land has ceased to be either a profit or a pleasure.
0	Something has changed you completely.
0	"The Jew wanted to tell me her history, but I said it did not interest me."
0	She was conscious that a great opportunity had been wasted.
0	Still, I felt interested, in a sort of way.
0	‘Thou couldst not believe how marvellous a place it was.
0	Yet ruled he not long, so great had been his suffering, and so bitter the fire of his testing, for after the space of three years he died.
0	It must be done somehow.
0	Seized with a panic, which, under the circumstances, was only natural, he rushed for the staircase, but found Washington Otis waiting for him there with the big garden-syringe, and being thus hemmed in by his enemies on every side, and driven almost to bay, he vanished into the great iron stove, which, fortunately for him, was not lit, and had to make his way home through the flues and chimneys, arriving at his own room in a terrible state of dirt, disorder, and despair.
0	On the other side of the group, Virtuous Love with ‘vans     dejected’ holds forth the arrow to an approaching troop of sylvan     people, fauns, rams, goats, satyrs, and satyr-mothers, pressing their     children tighter with their fearful hands, who hurry along from the     left in a sunken path between the foreground and a rocky wall, on     whose lowest ridge a brook-guardian pours from her urn her     grief-telling waters.
0	But don’t let us talk of that.
0	"That Tartuffe has emigrated to England and opened a shop."
0	There is something so unique about Christ.
0	The King of Malabar had shown to a certain Venetian a rosary of three hundred and four pearls, one for every god that he worshipped.
0	Worn out by your entire ignorance of my existence, I determined to end the matter one way or the other, and after a long struggle with myself I accepted you under this dear old tree here.
0	All I ask of you is to perform a certain scientific experiment.
0	All trials are trials for one's life, just as all sentences are sentences of death; and three times have I been tried.
0	"I recognize him in a flash," exclaimed the duchess.
0	I know no one who has a higher sense of duty and responsibility.
0	Art never expresses anything but itself.
0	I regret it because there is much to be said in favour of modern journalism.
0	Of course, the wheelbarrow is worth far more than the plank, but true, friendship never notices things like that.
0	My nephew, you seem to be displaying signs of triviality.
0	And he sobbed again and said: ‘Mother, my suffering is greater than I can bear.
0	They worship us, and are always bothering us to do something for them."
0	Somehow, now that it has happened actually, and to me, it seems far too wonderful for tears.
0	The world seemed to me finer because you were in it, and goodness more real because you lived.
0	Give me the head of Jokanaan.
0	When he reached the library, he saw the bag and coat in the corner.
0	he answered, "don't call me that."
0	That is the reason I hate vulgar realism in literature.
0	[_Catches her in his arms and kisses her_.
0	Lord Illingworth has been most entertaining.
0	I am so glad that you have never done anything, never carved a statue, or painted a picture, or produced anything outside of yourself!
0	There are few of us who have not sometimes wakened before dawn, either after one of those dreamless nights that make us almost enamoured of death, or one of those nights of horror and misshapen joy, when through the chambers of the brain sweep phantoms more terrible than reality itself, and instinct with that vivid life that lurks in all grotesques, and that lends to Gothic art its enduring vitality, this art being, one might fancy, especially the art of those whose minds have been troubled with the malady of reverie.
0	“Dear little Swallow,” said the Prince, “you tell me of marvellous things, but more marvellous than anything is the suffering of men and of women.
0	The dog-cart is waiting, sir.
0	surely Providence can resist temptation by this time.
0	In a griffin-drawn chariot appears one whose brows are bound with olive, who is veiled in white, and mantled in green, and robed in a vesture that is coloured like live fire.
0	The cool water refreshed him after his long sleep.
0	We ask it for pleasure.
0	It is a meaningless word, too.
0	I had no idea you ever came to political parties!
0	If it were known that as a young man, secretary to a great and important minister, you sold a Cabinet secret for a large sum of money, and that that was the origin of your wealth and career, you would be hounded out of public life, you would disappear completely.
0	But you were simple, natural, and affectionate then.
0	[Jack groans, and sinks into a chair.
0	Darlington has got a woman here in his rooms.
0	Unselfishness recognises infinite variety of type as a delightful thing, accepts it, acquiesces in it, enjoys it.
0	Why, even Morris’s poorest workman could make you a more comfortable seat than the whole of Nature can.
0	He shuddered, and for a moment he regretted that he had not told Basil the true reason why he had wished to hide the picture away.
0	[_With a note of irony in her voice_.]
0	He beat out the gold into wreaths for the conqueror’s helmet, or into palmates for the Tyrian robe, or into masks for the royal dead.
0	I don’t know how the unfortunate men in the House stand these long debates.
0	His love of art, however, never deserted him.
0	More shameful debts and extravagance?
0	_He is fond of being misunderstood_.
0	‘It is true, and I would that I had not told thee of it,’ she cried, and she clung to his knees weeping.
0	[Glares at Jack for a few moments.
0	She looked at him in wonder and laughed.
0	And his companions followed him, for he was fair, and fleet of foot, and could dance, and pipe, and make music.
0	[_Puts out her hand to take it_.]
0	I am going to alter.
0	"That a burnt child loves the fire."
0	Now, if you promise not to interrupt too often, I will read you my article.
0	Sometimes she would give herself up entirely to art, turn her drawing-room into a studio, and spend two or three days a week at picture galleries or museums.
0	Was it not Buonarotti who had carved it in the coloured marbles of a sonnet-sequence?
0	I have no brother at all.
0	I am grieved to hear such sentiments from you, Mr. Worthing.
0	That woman is not coming here to-night!
0	"I know, my dear, I should have fallen madly in love with you," she used to say, "and thrown my bonnet right over the mills for your sake.
0	Most people live for love and admiration.
0	“I believe the Spring has come at last,” said the Giant; and he jumped out of bed and looked out.
0	"Oh, she is better than good--she is beautiful," murmured Lord Henry, sipping a glass of vermouth and orange-bitters.
0	"The persons are here, Monsieur."
0	The same look of pity came into Dorian Gray's eyes.
0	In this world there are only two tragedies.
0	_A flawless dandy_, _he would be annoyed if he were considered romantic_.
0	The pallid figures on the tapestry are smiling at us, and the heavy eyelids of my bronze Narcissus are folded in sleep.
0	in what a monstrous moment of pride and passion he had prayed that the portrait should bear the burden of his days, and he keep the unsullied splendour of eternal youth!
0	This is no isolated instance that we are giving.
0	Do you mean to say you didn’t come here expressly to propose to me?
0	_But Vandyck would have liked to have painted his head_.]
0	I mean that you stole that ornament from my cousin, Mary Berkshire, to whom I gave it when she was married.
0	It is that which makes women so irresistibly adorable.
0	laughed his companion, and as the hare bounded into the thicket, he fired.
0	Suddenly she stood up, very pale, and with a strange light in her eyes.
0	LORD DARLINGTON _in mingled astonishment and anger_.
0	I can't bear your shutting yourself up like this."
0	He won’t come—I know he won’t come.
0	You gave her the money to do it, which is the same thing.
0	I heard that he was offered Vienna.
0	Yes; that is Herodias, the Tetrarch's wife.
0	I remember poor Charlotte Pagden making herself quite unpopular one season, because she had a French governess she wanted to recommend to every one.
0	And I am full of interesting information.
0	Without them, in our incomplete state, there would be no advance towards civilisation.
0	But I am sorry you won't come and dine."
0	Even in Shakespeare’s own day this use of his plays was recognised.
0	You have sent for him.
0	Wherefore is thy raiment stained with scarlet?
0	I suppose you know how to christen all right?
0	But he held her tightly to him, and would not suffer her to depart.
0	Oh, women have become so highly educated, Jane, that nothing should surprise us nowadays, except happy marriages.
0	I have sworn it, have I not?
0	Thee also I hate, and I bid thee tell me wherefore thou hast wrought with me in this wise.’ And his Soul answered him, ‘When thou didst send me forth into the world thou gavest me no heart, so I learned to do all these things and love them.’ ‘What sayest thou?’ murmured the young Fisherman.
0	The poor thieves and outcasts who are imprisoned here with me are in many respects more fortunate than I am.
0	You have promised to dance for me.
0	I have talked quite enough for to-day," said Lord Henry, smiling.
0	He seems to have had great confidence in the opinion of his physicians.
0	Thy mouth is like a band of scarlet on a tower of ivory.
0	"Yes, Harry, I believe that is true.
0	why did I not hide him from the moon?
0	There must be no mood with which one cannot sympathise, no dead mode of life that one cannot make alive.
0	I find that little things are so very difficult to do.
0	People always seem to think that they are improper, and either look shocked, which is vulgar, or laugh, which is worse.
0	“‘A great loss to me at any rate,’ answered the Miller; ‘why, I had as good as given him my wheelbarrow, and now I really don’t know what to do with it.
0	Look at that great, honey-coloured moon that hangs in the dusky air.
0	“Arguments are extremely vulgar, for everybody in good society holds exactly the same opinions.
0	It was planted with tulip-cups and moonflowers, and silver-studded aloes.
0	For an educated person’s ideas of Art are drawn naturally from what Art has been, whereas the new work of art is beautiful by being what Art has never been; and to measure it by the standard of the past is to measure it by a standard on the rejection of which its real perfection depends.
0	Jack, you are at the muffins again!
0	That is the fatality of faith, and the lesson of romance.
0	He’s such a brilliant talker, too.
0	They, at any rate, work under those decorative conditions that each art requires for its perfection, and have sufficient æsthetic instinct to regret those sordid and stupid limitations of absolute modernity of form which have proved the ruin of so many of the Impressionists.
0	It is much to be regretted that in our rank of life the wife should be so persistently frivolous, under the impression apparently that it is the proper thing to be.
0	He turned and hurried out, just conscious that the dead man had been thrust back into the chair and that Campbell was gazing into a glistening yellow face.
0	He went towards the little, pearl-coloured octagonal stand that had always looked to him like the work of some strange Egyptian bees that wrought in silver, and taking up the volume, flung himself into an arm-chair and began to turn over the leaves.
0	I think success is a thing worth having.
0	There was no reason that the future should be so full of shame.
0	Their strong passions must either bruise or bend.
0	Miss Prism, more is restored to you than this hand-bag.
0	I am so glad to get it back.
0	For the egotist is he who makes claims upon others, and the Individualist will not desire to do that.
0	Oh, your English society seems to me shallow, selfish, foolish.
0	The very essence of romance is uncertainty.
0	You will always be loved, and you will always be in love with love.
0	murmured Dorian Gray with his eyes still fixed upon his own portrait.
0	There is no mystery about either, and the incompetent can always be correct.
0	I had also with me a somewhat old, but capacious hand-bag in which I had intended to place the manuscript of a work of fiction that I had written during my few unoccupied hours.
0	What woman in the whole world?
0	The gas-lamps flickered and became blue, and the leafless trees shook their black iron branches to and fro.
0	Because the husband is vile—should the wife be vile also?
0	Then pay your debt by silence.
0	They ride in the park in the morning and chatter at tea-parties in the afternoon.
0	This pitiless indictment I bring without pity against myself.
0	You have seen me with it a hundred times, and you have no right whatsoever to read what is written inside.
0	As it was, we always misunderstood ourselves and rarely understood others.
0	And he flung himself down on the grass and wept, and said to himself, ‘Surely this has come upon me by reason of my sin.
0	The band, such as it was, struck up a few bars of music, and the dance began.
0	the house is tainted for me!
0	He wanted to propose to-night.
0	"I am on the side of the Trojans.
0	For Heaven's sake give me back my cigarette case.
0	can't you see that my heart is breaking?"
0	"Two months ago I went to a crush at Lady Brandon's.
0	"What more do you want?"
0	The chestnut had its spires of white stars, and the hawthorn its pallid moons of beauty.
0	Yes, to every one, without exception.
0	I shall never get over it.” “But they have not lost their only son,” said the Roman Candle; “no misfortune has happened to them at all.” “I never said that they had,” replied the Rocket; “I said that they might.
0	It is true that, under existing conditions, a few men who have had private means of their own, such as Byron, Shelley, Browning, Victor Hugo, Baudelaire, and others, have been able to realise their personality more or less completely.
0	Of course I could, Cecily.
0	To-night I am happy, I am exceeding happy.
0	"Dorian," she answered, lingering over his name with long-drawn music in her voice, as though it were sweeter than honey to the red petals of her mouth.
0	To those who are preoccupied with the beauty of form nothing else seems of much importance.
0	I will ask you to excuse me for a moment, Lord Caversham.
0	Ethics, like natural selection, make existence possible.
0	They have taken the triple tiara of the Pope.
0	There, of course, I stumbled against Lady Brandon.
0	The senses could refine, and the intellect could degrade.
0	The plain women are very useful.
0	It was simply bad art.
0	Dorian Gray hurried along the quay through the drizzling rain.
0	All your theories, in fact, Harry."
0	It’s most dangerous nowadays for a husband to pay any attention to his wife in public.
0	The actual people who live in Japan are not unlike the general run of English people; that is to say, they are extremely commonplace, and have nothing curious or extraordinary about them.
0	The music jarred, and Dorian Gray started and stared at his friend.
0	I mean, there is a good deal of selfishness in it.
0	He looked pale, and proud, and indifferent.
0	"Marriage is hardly a thing that one can do now and then, Harry."
0	High hopes were once formed of democracy; but democracy means simply the bludgeoning of the people by the people for the people.
0	"You can have your secret as long as I have your heart," he murmured.
0	_opens and_ MRS. ARBUTHNOT _enters_.
0	In the steel shields of Athena's eyes there had been no pity for Arachne; the pomp and peacocks of Hera were all that was really noble about her; and the Father of the Gods himself had been too fond of the daughters of men.
0	The red blasts of trumpets that herald the approach of kings, and make afraid the enemy, are not so red.
0	Well, I am not like that young man you told me of when we were down at Marlow together, the young man who used to say that yellow satin could console one for all the miseries of life.
0	We think that we are generous because we credit our neighbour with the possession of those virtues that are likely to be a benefit to us.
0	But, my own sweet Cecily, I have never written you any letters.
0	It is the only thing to do now.
0	If you have not got women on your side you are quite over.
0	The former expression has reference to style; the latter to subject-matter.
0	Who has drunk my wine?
0	But we will not speak of this.
0	Between the windows stood a black ebony cabinet, inlaid with plates of ivory, on which the figures from Holbein’s Dance of Death had been graved—by the hand, some said, of that famous master himself.
0	He went to his room and dressed.
0	I know well that it is larger.
0	You wrote me a letter last night in which you said you trusted me and wanted my help.
0	"It is quite true, I never talk when I am working, and never listen either, and it must be dreadfully tedious for my unfortunate sitters.
0	I fancy that the true explanation is this:  It often happens that the real tragedies of life occur in such an inartistic manner that they hurt us by their crude violence, their absolute incoherence, their absurd want of meaning, their entire lack of style.
0	Behind thine hands and thy curses thou didst hide thy face.
0	It is possible that God is for him and with him.
0	We are dominated by the fanatic, whose worst vice is his sincerity.
0	It is somewhat too sensational.
0	Not yours, I need hardly say, Gertrude.
0	And I have never broken my word.
0	He was not to go to the gold-fields at all.
0	Lord Gloucester was one of my greatest friends at Oxford.
0	It is only fair to state, however, that the extraordinary success of the revolution in house-decoration and furniture and the like has not really been due to the majority of the public developing a very fine taste in such matters.
0	The chapter on the Fall of the Rupee you may omit.
0	She would have put him on her right hand, and smiled at him, and he would have never left her side, but would have made her his playmate, and taught her all kinds of delightful tricks.
0	Beneath its purple pall, the face painted on the canvas could grow bestial, sodden, and unclean.
0	I was in a hand-bag--a somewhat large, black leather hand-bag, with handles to it--an ordinary hand-bag in fact.
0	Of course I watch over Sibyl."
0	I understood your nature from the first.
0	I forget what I did.... How inquisitive you are, Harry!
0	You are much better than you pretend to be."
0	So my mother tells me.
0	"I should have thought they had got tired of that by this time," said Dorian, pouring himself out some wine and frowning slightly.
0	There’ll probably be two more.
0	But whether or not the Phrygian Faun was silent, I cannot be.
0	_But she is really like a Tanagra statuette_, _and would be rather annoyed if she were told so_.]
0	He had listened to them, laughed at them, forgotten them.
0	Then wisdom altered its method and spoke of espial and discovery.
0	In good society that always whitewashes a woman.
0	You have seen a good deal of her since then.
0	For nearly twenty minutes, neither of the men spoke.
0	You cannot deny that the House of Commons has always shown great sympathy with the sufferings of the poor.
0	She is not to be judged by any external standard of resemblance.
0	It is to him that the origins of things are revealed.
0	I am the secretary, and Tommy Trafford is treasurer.
0	During the spring, the summer, and the autumn he was very happy, but when the winter came, and he had no fruit or flowers to bring to the market, he suffered a good deal from cold and hunger, and often had to go to bed without any supper but a few dried pears or some hard nuts.
0	Then have we got to part?
0	But don’t let us have a scene.
0	To stay in this house any longer is impossible.
0	I want to do something that will make you proud of me, and Lord Illingworth is going to help me.
0	The next day she was extremely ill, and Dr. Locock, of Hanover Square, was called in to attend her.
0	Called first at the Club—fact is, wanted to put me out of suspense—and being told I had gone on—followed—naturally frightened when she heard a lot of us coming in—retired to another room—I assure you, most gratifying to me, the whole thing.
0	The influence of the critic will be the mere fact of his own existence.
0	Oh, don’t ask me to do this horrible thing.
0	“I am not going to stop talking to him merely because he pays no attention.
0	You are one of the most advanced Bunburyists I know.
0	[_Takes tea which she offers him_.]
0	As for me, I have no need of these.
0	I saw him talking to that Mrs. Cheveley when he came in.
0	Pray be as trivial as you can.
0	There was jealousy in the lad's heart, and a fierce murderous hatred of the stranger who, as it seemed to him, had come between them.
0	No; the thing had to be examined, and at once.
0	To censure them would show 'a lack of appreciation.'
0	Why should he watch the hideous corruption of his soul?
0	"How badly I acted to-night, Dorian!"
0	Indeed I am not sure that I would desire to reclaim him.
0	I should like to make some money to take you and Sibyl off the stage.
0	They look so thoroughly unhappy.
0	Dorian said nothing, but rose from the table, and passing into the next room, sat down to the piano and let his fingers stray across the white and black ivory of the keys.
0	Besides, my dear Windermere, how on earth could I pose as a mother with a grown-up daughter?
0	But what the gods give they quickly take away.
0	The white arms of Andromache are around his neck.
0	I know you are surprised at my talking to you like this.
0	Few men hold such a position in their own lifetime, and have it so acknowledged.
0	The music is in German.
0	The American girl has been giving us a lecture.
0	Now, what I propose is this.
0	But it is by love and admiration that we should live.
0	But I am afraid such a scheme would be quite unpractical.
0	You prefer to be natural?
0	Shouldn’t mind being introduced to my own tailor; he always votes on the right side.
0	It is a beautiful virtue, and I possess it in a high degree.
0	I think I shall, father.
0	"Dorian, if I told you, you might like me less than you do, and you would certainly laugh at me.
0	Just my sentiments, dear boy, just my sentiments.
0	But there is no literary public in England for anything except newspapers, primers, and encyclopaedias.
0	A girl with a simple, unspoiled nature, like Gwendolen, could hardly be expected to reside in the country.
0	You must not look at her!
0	No, I made him a charming offer.
0	[_Coming towards him L.C._]  My dear Arthur, I never talk scandal.
0	_On the right is the door leading into the hall_.
0	I have a foolish habit of reading periodicals, and it seems to me that most modern criticism is perfectly valueless.
0	He is not one of those whose sole aim is enjoyment, as, by all accounts, that unfortunate young man his brother seems to be.
0	I do mean something else.
0	“The ruby has fallen out of his sword, his eyes are gone, and he is golden no longer,” said the Mayor in fact, “he is litttle better than a beggar!” “Little better than a beggar,” said the Town Councillors.
0	"It was a distinction, my dear Dorian--a great distinction.
0	So I lived, and so I died.
0	They have forgotten the highest of all duties, the duty that one owes to one's self.
0	"You have got Harry," said the painter sadly.
0	I have only just seen it myself.
0	And to the dead thing he made confession.
0	He loathed it, and it made hideous faces at him.
0	I come here to be educated.
0	"And what do you propose to do?"
0	Let us preserve a dignified silence.
0	‘Racine abhorre la réalité,’ says Auguste Vacquerie somewhere; ‘il ne daigne pas s’occuper de son costume.
0	The birds didn't, why should man?
0	When a woman marries again, it is because she detested her first husband.
0	No one, except myself, knows Robert better than you do.
0	I have got all my creepers to nail up, and all my flowers to water, and all my grass to roll.’ “‘Well, really,’ said the Miller, ‘I think that, considering that I am going to give you my wheelbarrow, it is rather unfriendly of you to refuse.’ “‘Oh, don’t say that,’ cried little Hans, ‘I wouldn’t be unfriendly for the whole world’; and he ran in for his cap, and trudged off with the big sack on his shoulders.
0	[Enter Jack with a hand-bag of black leather in his hand.]
0	It has a life of its own.
0	As he passed out, he used to look with wonder at the black confessionals and long to sit in the dim shadow of one of them and listen to men and women whispering through the worn grating the true story of their lives.
0	A sense of infinite pity, not for himself, but for the painted image of himself, came over him.
0	The actor is a critic of the drama.
0	"You don't want me to meet him?"
0	I am afraid I can’t take him with me to Downing Street.
0	But the little Infanta was not there, only some wonderful white statues that looked down on him from their jasper pedestals, with sad blank eyes and strangely smiling lips.
0	But that is not to trouble them.
0	One can realise a thing in a single moment, but one loses it in the long hours that follow with leaden feet.
0	I had no expectations then.
0	Lane: Mr. F. Kinsey Peile.
0	But he must be very good, and not lose his temper, or spend his money foolishly.
0	Cecily, you have lifted a load from my mind.
0	[_Goes out with the_ VICOMTE DE NANJAC.
0	It would have increased the theatrical picturesqueness of the situation.
0	Only dull people are brilliant at breakfast.
0	In fact, he mistakes me for one of the Court dignitaries!” “Let us put it into the fire!” said the other boy, “it will help to boil the kettle.” So they piled the faggots together, and put the Rocket on top, and lit the fire.
0	That would be about four years ago.
0	When Montford passed me your letter across the table—he had opened it by mistake, I suppose, without looking at the handwriting on the envelope—and I read it—oh!
0	We know now that we do not see with the eyes or hear with the ears.
0	The possession of private property is very often extremely demoralising, and that is, of course, one of the reasons why Socialism wants to get rid of the institution.
0	“How selfish I have been!” he said; “now I know why the Spring would not come here.
0	You have spoken against Criticism as being a sterile thing.
0	Every one was a great success except the Remarkable Rocket.
0	He grew nervous, and a horrible fit of terror came over him.
0	Yet never again in the corner of the Fullers’ Field grew flowers of any kind, but the field remained barren even as before.
0	Mrs. Erlynne is coming here to-night.
0	Round his neck is a chain of pale green jade, and his hands are like withered leaves.” “Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow,” said the Prince, “will you not stay with me for one night, and be my messenger?
0	"But really, if you all worship Madame de Ferrol in this ridiculous way, I shall have to marry again so as to be in the fashion."
0	It is a chill wind.
0	Many other dramatists have availed themselves of costume as a method of expressing directly to the audience the character of a person on his entrance, though hardly so brilliantly as Shakespeare has done in the case of the dandy Parolles, whose dress, by the way, only an archæologist can understand; the fun of a master and servant exchanging coats in presence of the audience, of shipwrecked sailors squabbling over the division of a lot of fine clothes, and of a tinker dressed up like a duke while he is in his cups, may be regarded as part of that great career which costume has always played in comedy from the time of Aristophanes down to Mr. Gilbert; but nobody from the mere details of apparel and adornment has ever drawn such irony of contrast, such immediate and tragic effect, such pity and such pathos, as Shakespeare himself.
0	I don't know what Harry has been saying to you, but he has certainly made you have the most wonderful expression.
0	I was mistaken in the view I took.
0	Courage has gone out of our race.
0	He had spared one innocent thing, at any rate.
0	We have all feet of clay, women as well as men; but when we men love women, we love them knowing their weaknesses, their follies, their imperfections, love them all the more, it may be, for that reason.
0	These American girls carry off all the good matches.
0	Let me kiss thy mouth, Jokanaan.
0	Was it to alter now with every mood to which he yielded?
0	I do not propose to undeceive him.
0	I was chaste, and thou didst fill my veins with fire.... Ah!
0	My dear guardian, with the assistance of Miss Prism, has the arduous task of looking after me.
0	It is in our brain that she quickens to life.
0	"You are talking scandal, Harry, and there is never any basis for scandal."
0	The less said about life’s sores the better, Mr. Kelvil.
0	Won’t to-morrow do as well?
0	Mrs. Erlynne has written a message on the card.
0	There is no mood or passion that Art cannot give us, and those of us who have discovered her secret can settle beforehand what our experiences are going to be.
0	“My friends are flying up and down the Nile, and talking to the large lotus-flowers.
0	My dear fellow, the truth isn't quite the sort of thing one tells to a nice, sweet, refined girl.
0	But what proof have I of their authenticity?
0	You don't, but it is nice of you to pretend that you do.
0	That could not be denied.
0	He would be a wonderful study."
0	You say that to trouble me, because I have looked at you all this evening.
0	What you have to do is this--" "Stop, Gray.
0	If you don't help me, I will send it.
0	Of course I am only talking generally about life.
0	Basil had been with him part of the time, and had gone wild over Tintoret.
0	The word ‘unhealthy,’ however, admits of analysis.
0	Whether they understand it or not the fact however remains, that taste and temperament have, to a certain extent been created in the public, and that the public is capable of developing these qualities.
0	It will be delightful to catch him.
0	[Cecily goes towards Jack; he kisses her brow in a melancholy manner.]
0	As he rode home, his eyes were full of tears, for he knew he was safe.
0	They have passed into the sphere of art and science, and neither art nor science knows anything of moral approval or disapproval.
0	His eyes filled with tears as he spoke.
0	Well, I tell thee, there are not dead men enough.
0	Away!’ cried the Priest: ‘thy leman is lost, and thou shalt be lost with her.’ And he gave him no blessing, but drove him from his door.
0	Yet never did she rise out of the sea to meet him, nor in any place of the sea could he find her, though he sought for her in the rivers of the sea, and in the valleys that are under the waves, in the sea that the night makes purple, and in the sea that the dawn leaves grey.
0	To us, who live in the nineteenth century, any century is a suitable subject for art except our own.
0	It is difficult not to be unjust to what one loves.
0	Is she such a mystery?
0	By the Ilyssus there were no tedious magazines about art, in which the industrious prattle of what they do not understand.
0	Well, it will not be very long before you are of age and free from the restraints of tutelage.
0	Besides, each time that one loves is the only time one has ever loved.
0	_Egomet Bonmot_ was represented by Mr. Erle and Sir William Follet, and the Attorney-General and Sir Frederick Pollock appeared for the other side.
0	What an extraordinary piece of luck!
0	Well, you see I gave this brooch to somebody once, years ago.
0	It is your chief charm.
0	Thou knowest well that it is true.
0	But he is developing charmingly!
0	I used to reproach him for that.
0	But the murder of Helen Abercrombie was carried out by himself and his wife for the sake of a sum of about £18,000, for which they had insured her life in various offices.
0	Her eyes caught the melody and echoed it in radiance, then closed for a moment, as though to hide their secret.
0	And now the moon has become red as blood.
0	It is easy to see that this is not Messias, if He is in Samaria.
0	It is both immoral and unfair.
0	"I should have said that whatever they ask for they had first given to us," murmured the lad gravely.
0	How red those petals are!
0	I should have thought Lady Caroline would have grown tired of conjugal anxiety by this time!
0	Morning after morning he had sat before the portrait wondering at its beauty, almost enamoured of it, as it seemed to him at times.
0	[_Still seated L.C._]  Oh, nowadays so many conceited people go about Society pretending to be good, that I think it shows rather a sweet and modest disposition to pretend to be bad.
0	The passion for property is in it.
0	Last night she was a great artist.
0	I have been obliged for the present to put Lord Goring into a class quite by himself.
0	He shall be eaten of worms.
0	Hectic spots of red burned on his cheeks.
0	Was there no hope for him?
0	But let us return to the particular point at issue.
0	And he stood as one in a dream.
0	She is just the woman for me.
0	Theocritus blows on his pipe, and we laugh with the lips of nymph and shepherd.
0	Christ mocked at the 'whited sepulchre' of respectability, and fixed that phrase for ever.
0	It might break up many a happy home if they did.
0	Bring me--what is it that I desire?
0	What a wonderful chance our names being the same!
0	That is the only difference, sir, between my visitor and me.
0	You did not know it then—you know it now!
0	I am quite candid when I say that rather than go out from this prison with bitterness in my heart against the world, I would gladly and readily beg my bread from door to door.
0	I have here a wine that is exquisite.
0	Therefore, let me go, for I must wander again over the world, and may not tarry here, though ye bring me the crown and the sceptre.’  And as he spake he turned his face from them towards the street that led to the gate of the city, and lo!
0	To attempt to classify you, Mrs. Cheveley, would be an impertinence.
0	"Come away, Jim; come away," she whispered.
0	You are the most adorable of all ladies!
0	The sprawling monster did the same, and scattered the faint petals in the air.
0	the city lay at my feet, for it is in a valley.
0	“I have many beautiful flowers,” he said; “but the children are the most beautiful flowers of all.” One winter morning he looked out of his window as he was dressing.
0	We took the ripe pomegranates from the trees, and brake them, and drank their sweet juices.
0	He flung himself down on the sofa and turned away his face.
0	The world is perfectly packed with good women.
0	His object was to realise his own perfection as an artist, under certain conditions, and in certain forms of Art.
0	“I admit that she is domestic,” he continued, “but I love travelling, and my wife, consequently, should love travelling also.” “Will you come away with me?” he said finally to her; but the Reed shook her head, she was so attached to her home.
0	That is a paradox, sir.
0	The Japanese people are the deliberate self-conscious creation of certain individual artists.
0	[Crossing to her, and kneeling.]
0	Indeed, so little do ordinary people understand what thought really is, that they seem to imagine that, when they have said that a theory is dangerous, they have pronounced its condemnation, whereas it is only such theories that have any true intellectual value.
0	I become different from what you have known me to be.
0	When she died he was, for a time, like one bereft of reason.
0	Lord Illingworth, I want you so much to know my mother.
0	I am the only person of the smallest importance in London at present who wears a buttonhole.
0	Dorian Gray glanced at the picture, and suddenly an uncontrollable feeling of hatred for Basil Hallward came over him, as though it had been suggested to him by the image on the canvas, whispered into his ear by those grinning lips.
0	Tell me, did you go behind and see her, after the play was over?"
0	This speech is the turning-point in his career, as _The Times_ points out.
0	It is inevitable that they should be strongly moved by all this.
0	It may, indeed, be that life is chaos, as you tell me that it is; that its martyrdoms are mean and its heroisms ignoble; and that it is the function of Literature to create, from the rough material of actual existence, a new world that will be more marvellous, more enduring, and more true than the world that common eyes look upon, and through which common natures seek to realise their perfection.
0	It was to try and save you she came here.
0	How horribly white the long hands looked!
0	those things are very sad, no doubt, but I believe there are admirable homes where people of that kind are looked after and reformed, and I think on the whole that the secret of life is to take things very, very easily.
0	Curious stories became current about him after he had passed his twenty-fifth year.
0	Some time after, Mr. Otis was awakened by a curious noise in the corridor, outside his room.
0	It fell on the pavement, he tripped over it, and trampled upon it.
0	He thought that he was lying on the deck of a huge galley that was being rowed by a hundred slaves.
0	If the only thing that he ever said had been, 'Her sins are forgiven her because she loved much,' it would have been worth while dying to have said it.
0	I cannot conceive of any other explanation.
0	[_Rising._] Will you indeed give me whatsoever I shall ask, Tetrarch?
0	But it will never alter," sighed Hallward.
0	To sweep it with joy would be appalling.
0	"With their ages, Lady Narborough?"
0	But I am afraid I have to go.
0	Mother, I didn’t know you loved me so much as that.
0	I now see that sorrow, being the supreme emotion of which man is capable, is at once the type and test of all great art.
0	Whether it will do any good I really cannot say.
0	I have heard that men are brutal, horrible .
0	I know that there are many historians, or at least writers on historical subjects, who still think it necessary to apply moral judgments to history, and who distribute their praise or blame with the solemn complacency of a successful schoolmaster.
0	It sounds like something in the next world.
0	Dearest Gwendolen, there is no reason why I should make a secret of it to you.
0	And if you don’t make this young lady an ideal husband, I’ll cut you off with a shilling.
0	She is one of the good, sweet, simple people you told us we never admitted into society.
0	In the daytime I played with my companions in the garden, and in the evening I led the dance in the Great Hall.
0	The refusal of the companies to give him the £18,000 had placed him in a position of most painful pecuniary embarrassment.
0	I love to hear Robert talk about them.
0	They were made in winter, and it is summer now; spring-time for me, I think, a very dance of blossoms in blue skies."
0	It is often said that force is no argument.
0	There is nothing that stirs in the whole world of thought to which sorrow does not vibrate in terrible and exquisite pulsation.
0	"You wish me to defend my throne, then?"
0	He is to go to the play to realise an artistic temperament.
0	I think it is better that he should know the exact truth.
0	Man will have joy in the contemplation of the joyous life of others.
0	But Aristotle, like Goethe, deals with art primarily in its concrete manifestations, taking Tragedy, for instance, and investigating the material it uses, which is language, its subject-matter, which is life, the method by which it works, which is action, the conditions under which it reveals itself, which are those of theatric presentation, its logical structure, which is plot, and its final æsthetic appeal, which is to the sense of beauty realised through the passions of pity and awe.
0	That must be such a very, very interesting thing to write about.
0	I often have long conversations all by myself, and I am so clever that sometimes I don’t understand a single word of what I am saying.” “Then you should certainly lecture on Philosophy,” said the Dragon-fly; and he spread a pair of lovely gauze wings and soared away into the sky.
0	I'll tell him to come out.
0	"And much less than a friend.
0	[_Signing to the third soldier._] Let the prophet come forth....
0	Never know why I go.
0	This seems to me a shallow, or at least a mistaken, view.
0	He was walking home about eleven o'clock from Lord Henry's, where he had been dining, and was wrapped in heavy furs, as the night was cold and foggy.
0	You don't mean to say Ferrol is the fourth?"
0	"Quite so," answered the young lord.
0	The Rocket was very damp, so he took a long time to burn.
0	Years ago you did a clever, unscrupulous thing; it turned out a great success.
0	By our passions, and for them, if you will.
0	My metaphor was drawn from fruits.
0	They are good husbands, or faithful wives, or something tedious.
0	"And here is the key, sir," said the old lady, going over the contents of her bunch with tremulously uncertain hands.
0	Well, I have something of the Puritan in me.
0	But you daren’t tell him.
0	But I don't like German.
0	He jumped from the cart, and having told the groom to take the mare home, made his way towards his guest through the withered bracken and rough undergrowth.
0	Take care—you had better be careful.
0	Ah, that must have been what you thought was thunder in the air.
0	Do not listen to your mother's voice.
0	And indeed, it is not of us that you should ask this thing.
0	He loved to stroll through the gaunt cold picture-gallery of his country house and look at the various portraits of those whose blood flowed in his veins.
0	This young man might be rich.
0	Of seed-time or harvest, of the reapers bending over the corn, or the grape gatherers threading through the vines, of the grass in the orchard made white with broken blossoms or strewn with fallen fruit: of these we know nothing and can know nothing.
0	People, in that case, are less conscious of the horrible pressure that is being put on them, and so go through their lives in a sort of coarse comfort, like petted animals, without ever realising that they are probably thinking other people’s thoughts, living by other people’s standards, wearing practically what one may call other people’s second-hand clothes, and never being themselves for a single moment.
0	It is your duty to do that.
0	Of course I have been rather reckless.
0	Well, after I had been in the room about ten minutes, talking to huge overdressed dowagers and tedious academicians, I suddenly became conscious that some one was looking at me.
0	In a coffer incrusted with amber I have sandals incrusted with glass.
0	And now tell me--reach me the matches, like a good boy--thanks--what are your actual relations with Sibyl Vane?"
0	You propose to tell her?
0	I intend to play quite fairly with you.
0	Yesterday I cut an orchid, for my button-hole.
0	She is one of the sweetest of women.
0	Much depends on your reply.
0	The fact is, Lady Bracknell, I said I had lost my parents.
0	In a mad moment that, even now, I don't know whether I regret or not, I made a wish, perhaps you would call it a prayer...." "I remember it!
0	They say a corpse brings bad luck."
0	Gilbert, you sound too harsh a note.
0	‘Faster, faster!’ she cried, and the earth seemed to spin beneath his feet, and his brain grew troubled, and a great terror fell on him, as of some evil thing that was watching him, and at last he became aware that under the shadow of a rock there was a figure that had not been there before.
0	Indeed, so devoted was the rich Miller to little Hans, that he would never go by his garden without leaning over the wall and plucking a large nosegay, or a handful of sweet herbs, or filling his pockets with plums and cherries if it was the fruit season.
0	Oh, I like tedious, practical subjects.
0	‘As I came near them, the chief of the merchants rose up and drew his sword, and asked me my business.
0	Never opened my lips the whole time.
0	Suddenly it dawned on my soul what it all meant.
0	No eye but his would ever see his shame.
0	"Who are you in love with?"
0	He was an excellent musician, however, as well, and played both the violin and the piano better than most amateurs.
0	I don't require you," said Campbell coldly.
0	One can see them from myriad points of view.
0	“What a delightful voice you have!” cried the Frog.
0	He is a man who lives in the world and for it.
0	Between my art and the world there is now a wide gulf, but between art and myself there is none.
0	He should decline to live like that, and should either steal or go on the rates, which is considered by many to be a form of stealing.
0	Raphael was a great artist when he painted his portrait of the Pope.
0	You should be in bed, sir.
0	"Yes," he continued, "I am less to you than your ivory Hermes or your silver Faun.
0	My dear Sir Robert, what then?
0	I don't know what it was, but it had either prussic acid or white lead in it.
0	But while the poet can be pictorial or not, as he chooses, the painter must be pictorial always.
0	You would be a set of unfortunate bachelors.
0	But let us not talk of that matter.
0	it was Dorian Gray's own face that he was looking at!
0	I don’t understand you now.
0	_A pair of folding doors at the back open into the drawing-room_.
0	After the departure from England, for instance, of the ambassadors from the Czar, the Sultan and the Prince of Morocco, Henry the Eighth and his friends gave several masques in the strange attire of their visitors.
0	Actions are the first tragedy in life, words are the second.
0	[_Enter_ MR. DUMBY _and_ LADY PLYMDALE _from the ball-room_.]
0	You have such an absolutely trivial nature.
0	We were to have played a duet together--three duets, I believe.
0	Or was it fishing, Caroline?
0	And I am your wife, am I not?
0	By this means he gave to man an extended, a Titan personality.
0	He has been dead ten hours now.
0	Seems like a sailor, sir."
0	Lift up thine eyelids, Jokanaan!
0	I don’t think I ever heard you talk seriously before.
0	Yet the whole life of Christ--so entirely may sorrow and beauty be made one in their meaning and manifestation--is really an idyll, though it ends with the veil of the temple being rent, and the darkness coming over the face of the earth, and the stone rolled to the door of the sepulchre.
0	They start with the ideal desire of being the parish beadle, and in whatever sphere they are placed they succeed in being the parish beadle and no more.
0	Ernest, we may never be married.
0	* * * * * A procession of noble boys, fantastically dressed as _toreadors_, came out to meet her, and the young Count of Tierra-Nueva, a wonderfully handsome lad of about fourteen years of age, uncovering his head with all the grace of a born hidalgo and grandee of Spain, led her solemnly in to a little gilt and ivory chair that was placed on a raised dais above the arena.
0	Lord Henry, I wish you would tell me how to become young again."
0	I feel that I should not tell you all this, but I can't help it.
0	“‘Well, really,’ cried Hans, ‘it is very good of you to ask, very good indeed.
0	Therefore get thee hence, and let me see thy foul face no more.’ ‘Nay, but thou art indeed my little son, whom I bare in the forest,’ she cried, and she fell on her knees, and held out her arms to him.
0	I wonder what woman he is waiting for to-night.
0	[_With a flash of amusement in her eyes_.]
0	There have been critical ages that have not been creative, in the ordinary sense of the word, ages in which the spirit of man has sought to set in order the treasures of his treasure-house, to separate the gold from the silver, and the silver from the lead, to count over the jewels, and to give names to the pearls.
0	But the gout has crippled her fingers a good deal.
0	[_Goes L._]  But how shall I do it?
0	I have told you not to look at her.
0	There was something so crude and vulgar about everything of the kind.
0	I felt there was some slight error, Miss Cardew.
0	Give me Robert Chiltern’s letter.
0	There is no doubt at all that this is the future of machinery, and just as trees grow while the country gentleman is asleep, so while Humanity will be amusing itself, or enjoying cultivated leisure—which, and not labour, is the aim of man—or making beautiful things, or reading beautiful things, or simply contemplating the world with admiration and delight, machinery will be doing all the necessary and unpleasant work.
0	We shall all miss Gerald so much, dear Mrs. Arbuthnot.
0	His whole conception of Humanity sprang right out of the imagination and can only be realised by it.
0	I love you—love you as I have never loved any living thing.
0	I believe this is the first English country house you have stayed at, Miss Worsley?
0	The whole thing is most inconvenient, and really, when James is going away to Australia, and I have so much to think of, I must say that you should have shown more consideration.
0	[LORD GORING _is standing by the fireplace with his hands in his pockets_.
0	He saw it creeping into the stained trumpet of a Tyrian convolvulus.
0	The master of the galley weighed them, and put them into a little bag of green leather.
0	What has my husband to do with you?
0	Before this, however, he seems to have been carried away by boyish dreams of the romance and chivalry of a soldier’s life, and to have become a young guardsman.
0	"I wish to goodness it never had been discovered at all!"
0	_He comes towards his wife_, _not noticing_ LORD GORING’S _presence_.]
0	The horses snuff the     coming terror, and become unmanageable through fear.
0	Nay, but he is not the prophet Elias.
0	And they never grow any better.
0	Neither of us could help laughing, and we became friends at once."
0	She was just twelve years of age, and the sun was shining brightly in the gardens of the palace.
0	He laughed, and it laughed with him, and held its hands to its sides, just as he himself was doing.
0	I should not fancy Mrs. Cheveley is a woman who would be easily frightened.
0	Agatha, you say the most silly things possible.
0	her—oh, think of me sometimes.
0	As a rule, the critics—I speak, of course, of the higher class, of those in fact who write for the sixpenny papers—are far more cultured than the people whose work they are called upon to review.
0	The same nervous staccato laugh broke from her thin lips, and her fingers began to play with a long tortoise-shell paper-knife.
0	I think that whenever one has anything unpleasant to say, one should always be quite candid.
0	I have to think of Mabel’s future happiness.
0	"Oh, often," cried the little girl, looking up; "I know it quite well.
0	And the third is a wine of Sicily.
0	They had not influenced his nature.
0	[_Crosses and sits down at table to write a telegram_.]
0	The Flowers, however, were excessively annoyed at their behaviour, and at the behaviour of the birds.
0	And he felt glad, and understood not why he was glad.
0	It is a club to which I belong.
0	"I am a little changed already."
0	People have a careless way of talking about a “born liar,” just as they talk about a “born poet.”  But in both cases they are wrong.
0	You said to me once that pathos left you unmoved, but that beauty, mere beauty, could fill your eyes with tears.
0	But I thought you said that .
0	“Where shall I put up?” he said; “I hope the town has made preparations.” Then he saw the statue on the tall column.
0	I am coming to you.’  So she has found out everything!
0	It would have made a life-long separation between us, and I would have lost the love of the one woman in the world I worship, of the only woman who has ever stirred love within me.
0	She won’t go into it.
0	A well-made dress has no pockets.
0	She had called on memory to remake him.
0	The best that one can say of most modern creative art is that it is just a little less vulgar than reality, and so the critic, with his fine sense of distinction and sure instinct of delicate refinement, will prefer to look into the silver mirror or through the woven veil, and will turn his eyes away from the chaos and clamour of actual existence, though the mirror be tarnished and the veil be torn.
0	[_Pointing to the cistern._] What a strange prison!
0	Like Baudelaire he was extremely fond of cats, and with Gautier, he was fascinated by that ‘sweet marble monster’ of both sexes that we can still see at Florence and in the Louvre.
0	It is nearly always the result of starvation.
0	And we women know life too late.
0	There is no king in all the world who possesses such wonderful birds.
0	Music makes one feel so romantic—at least it always gets on one’s nerves.
0	Christ, like all fascinating personalities, had the power of not merely saying beautiful things himself, but of making other people say beautiful things to him; and I love the story St. Mark tells us about the Greek woman, who, when as a trial of her faith he said to her that he could not give her the bread of the children of Israel, answered him that the little dogs--([Greek text], 'little dogs' it should be rendered)--who are under the table eat of the crumbs that the children let fall.
0	[_Sitting on sofa with her_.]
0	George Alexander_                          _February_ 22_nd_, 1892.
0	But the staginess of her acting was unbearable, and grew worse as she went on.
0	No gentleman dines before seven.
0	I don’t observe any alteration in your lordship’s appearance.
0	The only thing that can purify it is the growth of the critical instinct.
0	You want to make her out a wicked woman.
0	At last the door opened and his servant entered.
0	That is the only way in which they can evade an awkward truth--a palpable contravention to their own wishes and theories.
0	At least he declared he did, and insisted on shaking him by the hand and assuring him that he was proud to meet a man who had discovered a real genius and gone bankrupt over a poet.
0	It seems a very dangerous idea.
0	Well, I delight in your bad qualities.
0	And the marvellous rose became crimson, like the rose of the eastern sky.
0	It's one's duty to do so.
0	He would never again tempt by a prayer any terrible power.
0	To turn an interesting thief into a tedious honest man was not his aim.
0	Or shall I write to him?"
0	I think I had better not, Duchess.
0	His hands were curiously cold.
0	However, you have got to catch the four-five, and I hope you will have a pleasant journey back to town.
0	[MRS. CHEVELEY _tries to get the bracelet off her arm_, _but fails_.
0	‘But how shall I send my soul from me?’ cried the young Fisherman.
0	She would pray for him, too, and in a few years he would come back quite rich and happy.
0	‘Alack, goodman!’ she murmured, ‘have we not children of our own, that thou must needs bring a changeling to sit by the hearth?
0	And she ran across the room and hugged him.
0	"You will write to me if you want anything, won't you?"
0	There is not a _good_ woman in London who would not applaud me.
0	He was the first to conceive the divided races as a unity.
0	Inside was a great court with an arcade running all round.
0	The qualities that he sought for in a picture were composition, beauty and dignity of line, richness of colour, and imaginative power.
0	You made many friends and went into their houses and were glad with them, and I, knowing my secret, did not dare to follow, but stayed at home and closed the door, shut out the sun and sat in darkness.
0	That is why I felt it was better to come and talk to you, and advise you to take Windermere away at once to Homburg or to Aix, where he’ll have something to amuse him, and where you can watch him all day long.
0	I think we’re very good friends already, Lord Darlington.
0	The twins, having brought their pea-shooters with them, at once discharged two pellets on him, with that accuracy of aim which can only be attained by long and careful practice on a writing-master, while the United States Minister covered him with his revolver, and called upon him, in accordance with Californian etiquette, to hold up his hands!
0	They were probably very ordinary-looking people, with nothing grotesque, or remarkable, or fantastic in their appearance.
0	He may use dialogue, as he did who set Milton talking to Marvel on the nature of comedy and tragedy, and made Sidney and Lord Brooke discourse on letters beneath the Penshurst oaks; or adopt narration, as Mr. Pater is fond of doing, each of whose Imaginary Portraits—is not that the title of the book?—presents to us, under the fanciful guise of fiction, some fine and exquisite piece of criticism, one on the painter Watteau, another on the philosophy of Spinoza, a third on the Pagan elements of the early Renaissance, and the last, and in some respects the most suggestive, on the source of that Aufklärung, that enlightening which dawned on Germany in the last century, and to which our own culture owes so great a debt.
0	They bring no offerings to the Temple.
0	‘Be it so,’ she muttered.
0	Disloyalty would be as impossible to him as deception.
0	The orphreys were woven in a diaper of red and gold silk, and were starred with medallions of many saints and martyrs, among whom was St. Sebastian.
0	Yes; and that the happy English home has proved in half the time.
0	You have had a life of joy, and pleasure, and success.
0	Inside was a green paste, waxy in lustre, the odour curiously heavy and persistent.
0	How he wished that he had gone back with her!
0	I see everything in him.
0	Far away, in an orchard, a nightingale was singing.
0	Cæsar himself sent it me.
0	There is a subtle influence in supper.
0	Everything, in fact, that you would find thoroughly uninteresting.
0	It has led Individualism entirely astray.
0	A life crowded with incident, I see; though perhaps somewhat too exciting for a young girl.
0	It contained the manuscript of a three-volume novel of more than usually revolting sentimentality.
0	How dare you ask me, of all men in the world, to mix myself up in this horror?
0	"I wish I could love," cried Dorian Gray with a deep note of pathos in his voice.
0	They belong to a more spiritual sphere.
0	The chin a little higher, dear.
0	Actors such as Mr. Forbes-Robertson, Mr. Conway, Mr. George Alexander, and others, not to mention older artists, can move with ease and elegance in the attire of any century; but there are not a few who seem dreadfully embarrassed about their hands if they have no side pockets, and who always wear their dresses as if they were costumes.
0	The plank bed, the loathsome food, the hard ropes shredded into oakum till one's finger-tips grow dull with pain, the menial offices with which each day begins and finishes, the harsh orders that routine seems to necessitate, the dreadful dress that makes sorrow grotesque to look at, the silence, the solitude, the shame--each and all of these things I have to transform into a spiritual experience.
0	It is a very dangerous doctrine.
0	That was my mission, you imagined.
0	In designing the scenery and costumes for any of Shakespeare’s plays, the first thing the artist has to settle is the best date for the drama.
0	"To cure the soul by means of the senses, and the senses by means of the soul!"
0	Ah, she is coming this way.
0	I was in hopes he would have married lady Kelso.
0	Illness of any kind is hardly a thing to be encouraged in others.
0	‘When the moon is full, when the moon is full,’ she muttered.
0	There is nothing in the world so white as thy body.
0	In one point he was more fortunate than the novel's fantastic hero.
0	It will sound strange that dry bread could possibly be a delicacy to any one.
0	Why had he kept it so long?
0	The music, however, has been set to the actual words of "Salomé" in Madame Hedwig Lachmann's admirable translation.
0	Whatever unfortunate entanglement my dear boy may have got into, I will never reproach him with it after we are married.
0	The darkness lifted, and, flushed with faint fires, the sky hollowed itself into a perfect pearl.
0	As one read them, one seemed to be floating down the green water-ways of the pink and pearl city, seated in a black gondola with silver prow and trailing curtains.
0	You would probably make a very poor choice.
0	If he cannot think, it is monstrous to require thought of any kind from him.
0	Then, as their beds were quite close to each other, to stand between them in the form of a green, icy-cold corpse, till they became paralyzed with fear, and finally, to throw off the winding-sheet, and crawl round the room, with white, bleached bones and one rolling eyeball, in the character of "Dumb Daniel, or the Suicide's Skeleton," a _rôle_ in which he had on more than one occasion produced a great effect, and which he considered quite equal to his famous part of "Martin the Maniac, or the Masked Mystery."
0	The Greeks had no art-critics.
0	You would think it was the hand of a dead woman who is seeking to cover herself with a shroud.
0	And how shall we tend it?’  And she was wroth against him.
0	Cecily is a little too much interested in him.
0	And then Nature is so indifferent, so unappreciative.
0	"I hope Dorian has told you about my plan for rechristening everything, Gladys.
0	[_Buries his face in his hands_.]
0	Linnaeus fell on his knees and wept for joy when he saw for the first time the long heath of some English upland made yellow with the tawny aromatic brooms of the common furze; and I know that for me, to whom flowers are part of desire, there are tears waiting in the petals of some rose.
0	[_Takes up hand-mirror from table and looks into it_.]
0	She is incapable of understanding an upright nature like my husband’s!
0	As a class, they rank with illustrations, and, even considered from this point of view are failures, as they do not stir the imagination, but set definite bounds to it.
0	Romance should never begin with sentiment.
0	If I had read all this in a book, Harry, I think I would have wept over it.
0	How silly of him, when the sun was shining so brightly, and everybody was so happy!
0	But then I always know what you are going to say, so I don’t feel alarmed.
0	They know their power and use it.
0	You can come to my sister's box.
0	He passed his hand across his forehead.
0	You have got to get married, and at once.
0	"Nonsense, Jim," she whispered, stroking the sleeve of his coat.
0	If he came himself, which he will not do, my answer would be the same.
0	Oh, Gertrude, do you know who is coming to see you?
0	"Yes," he continued, turning round and taking his handkerchief out of his pocket; "his painting had quite gone off.
0	I sent round to him this morning on chance and he promised faithfully not to disappoint me."
0	But I never dreamed for a moment of allowing that to stand in my way.
0	She has got a capital appetite, goes long walks, and pays no attention at all to her lessons.
0	Without this it starves, or is dulled.
0	It was an act of folly done in his youth, dishonourable, I admit, shameful, I admit, unworthy of him, I admit, and therefore .
0	The commonest thing is delightful if one only hides it.
0	"No; I think your nature so deep."
0	It would be terrible if there were any scene.
0	A troop of handsome Egyptians—as the gipsies were termed in those days—then advanced into the arena, and sitting down cross-legs, in a circle, began to play softly upon their zithers, moving their bodies to the tune, and humming, almost below their breath, a low dreamy air.
0	With regard to women, well, dear Gertrude, you belong to the younger generation, and I am sure it is all right if you approve of it.
0	The fact was, as she explained to Dorian, behind a very shabby fan, one of her married daughters had come up quite suddenly to stay with her, and, to make matters worse, had actually brought her husband with her.
0	Shouldst thou touch with this flower the hard lips of the Queen, she would follow thee all over the world.
0	Her robe was of grey satin, the skirt and the wide puffed sleeves heavily embroidered with silver, and the stiff corset studded with rows of fine pearls.
0	‘He who would be free,’ says a fine thinker, ‘must not conform.’  And authority, by bribing people to conform, produces a very gross kind of over-fed barbarism amongst us.
0	Nor, again, is it enough that there should be accurate and appropriate costumes of beautiful colours; there must be also beauty of colour on the stage as a whole, and as long as the background is painted by one artist, and the foreground figures independently designed by another, there is the danger of a want of harmony in the scene as a picture.
0	You seem to forget that I am married, and the one charm of marriage is that it makes a life of deception absolutely necessary for both parties.
0	You taught me what reality really is.
0	I should be sorry to miss you."
0	I am afraid that there is not much to be said in favour of either the lawyer or the journalist.
0	And if I then am not ashamed of my punishment, as I hope not to be, I shall be able to think, and walk, and live with freedom.
0	You have come to the wrong man.
0	Our little county newspaper is sure to chronicle the fact next week.
0	But, if you wish, let us stay here.
0	I wish I had seen that one sin of my youth burning to ashes.
0	"Well, I can't help going to see Sibyl play," he cried, "even if it is only for a single act.
0	It is certainly very curious, for he asked me to be his wife yesterday afternoon at 5.30.
0	He could not help seeing the dead thing.
0	The loves and sorrows that are great are destroyed by their own plenitude.
0	Don't be cruel to me, because I love you better than anything in the world.
0	They take no count of its succession.
0	_Robert Elsmere_ is of course a masterpiece—a masterpiece of the “genre ennuyeux,” the one form of literature that the English people seems thoroughly to enjoy.
0	But it is equally true of what are called educated people.
0	As far as she is concerned, we are engaged.
0	Experience is the name every one gives to their mistakes.
0	She was thinking of Prince Charming, and, that she might think of him all the more, she did not talk of him, but prattled on about the ship in which Jim was going to sail, about the gold he was certain to find, about the wonderful heiress whose life he was to save from the wicked, red-shirted bushrangers.
0	Won’t you help a woman who is trying to get back?
0	_As she passes by_ SIR ROBERT CHILTERN, _who is standing close to the door_, _she pauses for a moment and looks him straight in the face_.
0	That is what I took the liberty of coming to you about."
0	I like him much better than the Frenchman you used to have.
0	How strange the moon seems!
0	Hours ago, Ernest, you asked me the use of Criticism.
0	Lord Windermere insists on my dancing with him first, and, as it’s his own house, I can’t well refuse.
0	My dear fellow, I’ll tell you at once.
0	Mrs. Erlynne has received a card.
0	He created life, he did not copy it.
0	"Yes, you have," he answered, smiling, "you have never told me what happened to you when you were locked up with the ghost."
0	Two men were loitering in the yard.
0	She will tell you it is true.
0	You were such a success in it.
0	Cry out against Heaven because the daughter of Brabantio died.
0	Now Art should never try to be popular.
0	I keep a diary in order to enter the wonderful secrets of my life.
0	"I am quite well, Harry.
0	To be good, according to the vulgar standard of goodness, is obviously quite easy.
0	As soon as it was over, Dorian Gray rushed behind the scenes into the greenroom.
0	Let us go and lie on the grass and smoke cigarettes and enjoy Nature.
0	He had been selfish and cruel to her.
0	Gertrude, you don’t know what I feel.
0	[_Exit on terrace with_ LORD WINDERMERE.
0	He has merely sympathy with pain, and sympathy with pain is not the highest form of sympathy.
0	Harry, Mr. Gray is ill again.
0	"James, you really talk very strangely.
0	In this they were right, as they were right in all things.
0	Out of that eternal pearl, the moon, the face of Piccarda Donati leans to us.
0	And the Queen said to him, ‘This is thy father whom thou hast succoured.’ And the King said, ‘This is thy mother whose feet thou hast washed with thy tears.’  And they fell on his neck and kissed him, and brought him into the palace and clothed him in fair raiment, and set the crown upon his head, and the sceptre in his hand, and over the city that stood by the river he ruled, and was its lord.
0	"Yes, madam," replied the old housekeeper in a low voice, "blood has been spilt on that spot."
0	The moment you consent to my marriage with Gwendolen, I will most gladly allow your nephew to form an alliance with my ward.
0	They are always so occupied in being jealous of other people’s husbands.
0	But there is something more I have to tell you, Arthur.
0	We might drive in the Park at five.
0	Drawing-Room at the Manor House, Woolton.
0	Because I want you to take my husband with you.
0	Then he stopped, and a troubled look came into his eyes.
0	But the shrill laughter of the children grated on his ears, and the bright pitiless sunlight mocked his sorrow, and a dull odour of strange spices, spices such as embalmers use, seemed to taint—or was it fancy?—the clear morning air.
0	He bowed his head in the dust, and sobbing, as one whose heart might break, he said to her: ‘Mother, I denied thee in the hour of my pride.
0	Some of them fascinated me.
0	Gerald, if you are going away with Lord Illingworth, go at once.
0	[_Still seated at table L._] LORD DARLINGTON.
0	When, at last, by means of the play within the play, and the puppets in their dalliance, Hamlet 'catches the conscience' of the King, and drives the wretched man in terror from his throne, Guildenstern and Rosencrantz see no more in his conduct than a rather painful breach of Court etiquette.
0	It was a small Chinese box of black and gold-dust lacquer, elaborately wrought, the sides patterned with curved waves, and the silken cords hung with round crystals and tasselled in plaited metal threads.
0	It was not a new world, but rather another chaos, that it created in us.
0	The true mystery of the world is the visible, not the invisible....
0	Why I shall always be bad.
0	It is painted in curious black letters, and is difficult to read.
0	Your rank and wealth, Harry; my brains, such as they are--my art, whatever it may be worth; Dorian Gray's good looks--we shall all suffer for what the gods have given us, suffer terribly."
0	I am never deceived in such matters.
0	That is the true decadence, and it is from this that we are now suffering.
0	I will take your place."
0	* * * * * Many curious stories were related about him at this period.
0	Wherever it has really diminished it, the results have always been extremely good.
0	And he drew back frowning, and having made the sign of the cross, he cried aloud and said, ‘I will not bless the sea nor anything that is in it.
0	What did she lecture about?
0	And so, let us be humane, and invite Art to turn her wonderful eyes elsewhere.
0	Why have you pulled the screen in front of it?
0	A black dog ran towards him and snarled.
0	Tired of being on the heights, I deliberately went to the depths in the search for new sensation.
0	She thinks it a little loud.
0	"That was at Lohengrin, Lady Henry, I think?"
0	Christ had no message for the Renaissance, which was wonderful because it brought an ideal at variance with his, and to find the presentation of the real Christ we must go to mediæval art.
0	And, as for Lord Illingworth, I don’t believe he is capable of anything infamous or base.
0	Often did the Woodcutter and his wife chide him, and say: ‘We did not deal with thee as thou dealest with those who are left desolate, and have none to succour them.
0	He walked up and down the room two or three times.
0	I trust the shades will be to your liking, madam.
0	"Pray don't, Lady Ruxton," said Lord Henry.
0	He could make little cages out of rushes for the grasshoppers to sing in, and fashion the long jointed bamboo into the pipe that Pan loves to hear.
0	The one thing that the public dislike is novelty.
0	Where is this Man at present?
0	I think it is quite romantic of him.
0	Did your ladyship ring for me?
0	one doesn't blurt these things out to people.
0	She wore a moss-coloured velvet jerkin with cinnamon sleeves, slim, brown, cross-gartered hose, a dainty little green cap with a hawk's feather caught in a jewel, and a hooded cloak lined with dull red.
0	How exquisite these single daffodils are!
0	The only effects that she can show us are effects that we have already seen through poetry, or in paintings.
0	"Dorian's, of course," answered the painter.
0	that is the sort of thing a man always says to a girl before he has been married to her.
0	"I am going on to the other place," he said after a pause.
0	As long as a woman can look ten years younger than her own daughter, she is perfectly satisfied.
0	The former was entirely his own.
0	The birds that were singing in the dew-drenched garden seemed to be telling the flowers about her.
0	Dorian Gray lifted his golden head from the pillow, and with pallid face and tear-stained eyes, looked at him as he walked over to the deal painting-table that was set beneath the high curtained window.
0	I don’t think you realise sufficiently, Robert, that you have brought into the political life of our time a nobler atmosphere, a finer attitude towards life, a freer air of purer aims and higher ideals—I know it, and for that I love you, Robert.
0	A man cannot be too careful in the choice of his enemies.
0	on no account,’ cried little Hans and he jumped out of bed, and dressed himself, and went up to the barn.
0	Every moment that passes takes something from me and gives something to it.
0	It is out of date.
0	"My dear Dorian," answered Lord Henry, taking a cigarette from his case and producing a gold-latten matchbox, "the only way a woman can ever reform a man is by boring him so completely that he loses all possible interest in life.
0	"Darlington is not going to do anything.
0	How is the little darling?
0	All women become like their mothers.
0	It is his love for you, Lady Windermere.
0	Sin is a thing that writes itself across a man's face.
0	There were damask Roses, and yellow Roses, lilac Crocuses, and gold, purple Violets and white.
0	_The Servant enters and begins pulling out the lights_.
0	And Hallward walked towards the corner of the room.
0	In fact, I shall go so high that—” Fizz!
0	Transcribed from the 1909 Arthur L. Humphreys edition by David Price, email ccx074@pglaf.org                           [Picture: Book cover]                                 * * * * *                                 * * * * *                            _Second Impression_ THE chief advantage that would result from the establishment of Socialism is, undoubtedly, the fact that Socialism would relieve us from that sordid necessity of living for others which, in the present condition of things, presses so hardly upon almost everybody.
0	‘To see and hear and write brave things,’ this was his aim.
0	Mrs. Erlynne—if you had not come here, I would have gone back.
0	Oh, flowers are as common here, Miss Fairfax, as people are in London.
0	It has been madness my coming.
0	But this is simply because Holbein compelled life to accept his conditions, to restrain itself within his limitations, to reproduce his type, and to appear as he wished it to appear.
0	After that revival of the classical forms of architecture which was one of the notes of the Renaissance, and the printing at Venice and elsewhere of the masterpieces of Greek and Latin literature, had come naturally an interest in the ornamentation and costume of the antique world.
0	A mad craving came over him.
0	Does she not reel like a drunken woman?
0	LADY CHILTERN               _Miss Julia Neilson_.
0	He felt that he had a right to know.
0	The room is luxuriously and artistically furnished.
0	Unlimited and absolute is the vision of him who sits at ease and watches, who walks in loneliness and dreams.
0	I admire him for it.
0	But Cæsar will crucify him when he comes to Rome.
0	I must try and remember it all.
0	It is not customary in England, Miss Worsley, for a young lady to speak with such enthusiasm of any person of the opposite sex.
0	Why, they will hang me, Alan!
0	He had a special passion, also, for ecclesiastical vestments, as indeed he had for everything connected with the service of the Church.
0	The station-master, however, wired up and down the line, and assured him that a strict watch would be kept for her, and, after having bought a hat for the little Duke from a linen-draper, who was just putting up his shutters, Mr. Otis rode off to Bexley, a village about four miles away, which he was told was a well-known haunt of the gipsies, as there was a large common next to it.
0	Phipps, is there a good fire in the smoking-room?
0	Simply that you felt that you admired me too much.
0	It will be a great pity, for it will alter you.
0	Indeed I was thinking about that, and not about my German lesson, when the Rector came in.
0	I think some preliminary inquiry on my part would not be out of place.
0	It is the only thing to do with it.
0	When the verities become acrobats, we can judge them."
0	They are as happy as possible!
0	"Yes; it was at dear Lohengrin.
0	If Adrian Singleton writes his friend's name across a bill, am I his keeper?
0	How can you sit there, calmly eating muffins when we are in this horrible trouble, I can't make out.
0	I saw the governess, Jane.
0	And I will not spoil your life for you, nor see you spoil it as a sacrifice to me, a useless sacrifice!
0	"Because I have loved so many of them, Dorian."
0	That it is the true creed I don't doubt myself.
0	Indeed, there is no doubt but that he would have formally abdicated and retired to the great Trappist monastery at Granada, of which he was already titular Prior, had he not been afraid to leave the little Infanta at the mercy of his brother, whose cruelty, even in Spain, was notorious, and who was suspected by many of having caused the Queen’s death by means of a pair of poisoned gloves that he had presented to her on the occasion of her visiting his castle in Aragon.
0	How do you do, Lord Darlington?
0	"My dear boy, I must see you.
0	"But she seems to me to be simply callous and cold.
0	I think I had better go over and talk to her.
0	I could not possibly let you stand in front of that picture."
0	However, we need not linger any longer over Shakespeare’s realism.
0	But she has many resources in herself, many resources.
0	He hated his mother's affectations.
0	And now that I am dead they have set me up here so high that I can see all the ugliness and all the misery of my city, and though my heart is made of lead yet I cannot chose but weep.” “What!
0	[_Sees a fan lying on the table_.]
0	For nearly ten minutes he stood there, motionless, with parted lips and eyes strangely bright.
0	You are not quite old enough to do that.
0	You know I am going to give you my wheelbarrow, and so, it is only fair that you should do something for me in return.’ “‘Certainly,’ cried little Hans, ‘I take it quite as a compliment your coming to me, and I will start off at once.
0	'From little Cecily, with her fondest love to her dear Uncle Jack.'
0	Of such modes of existence there are not a few: youth and the arts preoccupied with youth may serve as a model for us at one moment: at another we may like to think that, in its subtlety and sensitiveness of impression, its suggestion of a spirit dwelling in external things and making its raiment of earth and air, of mist and city alike, and in its morbid sympathy of its moods, and tones, and colours, modern landscape art is realising for us pictorially what was realised in such plastic perfection by the Greeks.
0	The negroes seized it from him, and thrust him back.
0	Salomé, daughter of Herodias, dance for me.
0	Why are you talking about Mrs. Cheveley?
0	How should they use it?
0	The man went over to a little wood, and whistled.
0	Of course I’m not nearly good enough for you, Mabel.
0	You mock at it for that.
0	Suddenly, a sharp, dry cough was heard, and they all looked round.
0	Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs at the age of forty—that’s good enough for any one, I should think.
0	I am sure that some misfortune will happen.
0	[_Crossing to door R._]  I am going to dress for dinner, and don’t mention the subject again this evening.
0	I fear you need have no hopes of Miss Worsley.
0	But surely, Mr. Worthing, you have been christened already?
0	Our grandmothers threw their caps over the mills, of course, but, by Jove, their granddaughters only throw their caps over mills that can raise the wind for them.
0	Then you must make him keep it.
0	Intellect is in itself a mode of exaggeration, and destroys the harmony of any face.
0	"I myself used to have literary ambitions, but I gave them up long ago.
0	I wonder who dropped it.
0	But when he came close, and without knowing why he did it, he made on his breast the sign of the Cross, and called upon the holy name.
0	In fact, the popular novel that the public calls healthy is always a thoroughly unhealthy production; and what the public call an unhealthy novel is always a beautiful and healthy work of art.
0	He got up and locked both doors.
0	Charles of England had ridden in stirrups hung with four hundred and twenty-one diamonds.
0	They serve to show how extremely limited is the area over which ethics, and ethical considerations, can claim to exercise influence.
0	You must wake me at nine to-morrow.
0	He may seek rather to deepen its mystery, to raise round it, and round its maker, that mist of wonder which is dear to both gods and worshippers alike.
0	And the Witch watched him as he went, and when he had passed from her sight she entered her cave, and having taken a mirror from a box of carved cedarwood, she set it up on a frame, and burned vervain on lighted charcoal before it, and peered through the coils of the smoke.
0	[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _goes out_.
0	I am afraid I took your wife’s fan in mistake for my own, when I was leaving your house to-night.
0	"It makes your eyes lovelier," was his reply.
0	But a second rap came, and then a third, louder than any of the others.
0	I will kiss thy mouth, Jokanaan.
0	[_A huge black arm, the arm of the Executioner, comes forth from the cistern, bearing on a silver shield the head of Jokanaan.
0	Some women were laughing in the pit.
0	When I think about religion at all, I feel as if I would like to found an order for those who _cannot_ believe: the Confraternity of the Faithless, one might call it, where on an altar, on which no taper burned, a priest, in whose heart peace had no dwelling, might celebrate with unblessed bread and a chalice empty of wine.
0	She was so like my friend that I brought her the magazine, and she recognised herself in it immediately, and seemed fascinated by the resemblance.
0	[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _walks up and down the room with a troubled expression_.
0	What could have put such an idea into your pretty little head?
0	It seems silly of the French, doesn't it?
0	At the prospect of going away?
0	They laugh while they dance, and their laughter is as clear as the laughter of water.
0	Shallow sorrows and shallow loves live on.
0	The supreme vice is shallowness.
0	Lord Illingworth, no proposition of yours interests me.
0	It is wretched that they should have to do so, and it is wrong, terribly wrong, of society that it should force them to do so.
0	I wish I could feel more pleasure, but I seem dead to all emotions except those of anguish and despair.
0	My father would talk morality after dinner.
0	I know lots of people think that.
0	[_Crushing letter in her hand_.]
0	Affectation, in such matters, consists in dressing according to the views of one’s neighbour, whose views, as they are the views of the majority, will probably be extremely stupid.
0	Literary criticism is not your forte, my dear fellow.
0	As for Alan Campbell, his suicide had been his own act.
0	Well, I think I have put all my questions to you.
0	I hope I shall remember that.
0	Is Lady Windermere in the ball-room?
0	Most of the servants were at Selby Royal.
0	But I must see her before I go, and make arrangements for another Bunbury.
0	Slavery was put down in America, not in consequence of any action on the part of the slaves, or even any express desire on their part that they should be free.
0	Women have a wonderful instinct about things.
0	“It is not comfortable here,” he remarked, “but no doubt it is some fashionable watering-place, and they have sent me away to recruit my health.
0	‘He is a man like myself.
0	My dear Robert, it’s a very awkward business, very awkward indeed.
0	It is too variable, and too closely connected with the passions; and a board of arbitrators who, for the general welfare of the race, are to be deprived of the power of putting their decisions into execution, will not be of much avail.
0	It shows itself by the gradual breaking-up of the blank-verse in the later plays, by the predominance given to prose, and by the over-importance assigned to characterisation.
0	In France they manage these things better.
0	She had all the Queen’s pretty petulance of manner, the same wilful way of tossing her head, the same proud curved beautiful mouth, the same wonderful smile—_vrai sourire de France_ indeed—as she glanced up now and then at the window, or stretched out her little hand for the stately Spanish gentlemen to kiss.
0	Let us go to Selby.
0	She is perfectly charming; and Patti sang divinely.
0	The only people I would care to be with now are artists and people who have suffered: those who know what beauty is, and those who know what sorrow is: nobody else interests me.
0	What did the stupid State-affairs matter?
0	what brought you into my life?
0	"In that case, let our friendship be a caprice," he murmured, flushing at his own boldness, then stepped up on the platform and resumed his pose.
0	I am afraid Lord Brancaster knew a good deal about that.
0	cried Dorian Gray; "and I don't allow people to call me a silly boy."
0	Outside he could see the huge dome of the cathedral, looming like a bubble over the shadowy houses, and the weary sentinels pacing up and down on the misty terrace by the river.
0	Oh, I’m sure she will have no objection.
0	He kissed the closed eyelids, and the wild spray that lay upon their cups was less salt than his tears.
0	All that Christ says to us by the way of a little warning is that every moment should be beautiful, that the soul should always be ready for the coming of the bridegroom, always waiting for the voice of the lover, Philistinism being simply that side of man's nature that is not illumined by the imagination.
0	Robert, you are your sister’s guardian, and I want your consent to my marriage with her.
0	Art is the most intense mode of Individualism that the world has known.
0	Use Love’s Litany, and the words will create the yearning from which the world fancies that they spring.
0	He watched it with that strange interest in trivial things that we try to develop when things of high import make us afraid, or when we are stirred by some new emotion for which we cannot find expression, or when some thought that terrifies us lays sudden siege to the brain and calls on us to yield.
0	It was rumoured that he had been seen brawling with foreign sailors in a low den in the distant parts of Whitechapel, and that he consorted with thieves and coiners and knew the mysteries of their trade.
0	He is the very soul of truth and honour.
0	Lear has a white beard, Hamlet’s father a grizzled, and Benedick is to shave his in the course of the play.
0	Arthur, would you mind seeing if Mrs. Erlynne’s carriage has come back?
0	That is the reason why agitators are so absolutely necessary.
0	Morning-room in Algernon's flat in Half-Moon Street.
0	He shows the poet’s work under new conditions, and by a method special to himself.
0	Must I write and tell her that?
0	What do you mean by calling on her three times running?
0	Six days I journeyed along the highways that lead to the city of Ashter, along the dusty red-dyed highways by which the pilgrims are wont to go did I journey, and on the morning of the seventh day I lifted up my eyes, and lo!
0	The private lives of men and women should not be told to the public.
0	They flaunt their conjugal felicity in one's face, as if it were the most fascinating of sins.
0	A case of twins that occurred recently in one of the outlying cottages on your own estate.
0	It is Nemesis without her mask.
0	It never tells me the truth.
0	I don’t think now that people can be divided into the good and the bad as though they were two separate races or creations.
0	Not one of you would ever be married.
0	Most of our elderly English painters spend their wicked and wasted lives in poaching upon the domain of the poets, marring their motives by clumsy treatment, and striving to render, by visible form or colour, the marvel of what is invisible, the splendour of what is not seen.
0	As one knows the poet by his fine music, so one can recognise the liar by his rich rhythmic utterance, and in neither case will the casual inspiration of the moment suffice.
0	I thought you would never care for anything but your art."
0	Neither religion, morality, nor reason can help me at all.
0	I suppose she will be married some day to a rough carter or a grinning ploughman.
0	My dear fellow, it isn't easy to be anything nowadays.
0	She told me she didn't, because none of them had had any hearts at all."
0	So the lad was looking rather sulky, as with listless fingers he turned over the pages of an elaborately illustrated edition of Manon Lescaut that he had found in one of the book-cases.
0	She made a little _moue_ of disappointment, and shrugged her shoulders.
0	Well, good-bye: I have enjoyed our conversation very much, I assure you.” “Conversation, indeed!” said the Rocket.
0	And when he saw the Star-Child coming, he struck upon a wooden bowl, and clattered his bell, and called out to him, and said, ‘Give me a piece of money, or I must die of hunger.
0	And the more completely he can suppress his own silly views, his own foolish prejudices, his own absurd ideas of what Art should be, or should not be, the more likely he is to understand and appreciate the work of art in question.
0	And the child smiled on the Giant, and said to him, “You let me play once in your garden, to-day you shall come with me to my garden, which is Paradise.” And when the children ran in that afternoon, they found the Giant lying dead under the tree, all covered with white blossoms.
0	[_Bows to_ LADY WINDERMERE, _passes over and shakes hands with_ LORD WINDERMERE.]
0	Anglomania is very fashionable over there now, I hear.
0	I had never seen any one so pale.
0	People’s mothers always bore me to death.
0	Has a ruby and diamond brooch been found in any of the rooms this morning, Mason?
0	A red rose is not selfish because it wants to be a red rose.
0	And ... his mother was very beautiful?"
0	When she came on in her boy's clothes, she was perfectly wonderful.
0	Transcribed from the 1912 Methuen and Co. edition by David Price, email ccx074@pglaf.org                                 * * * * *                                 * * * * *                 _First Published_, _at 1s.
0	He felt that life was changeful, fluid, active, and that to allow it to be stereotyped into any form was death.
0	However, to attack it for any reason is foolish; one might just as well speak disrespectfully of the equator.
0	Life and Literature, life and the perfect expression of life.
0	We hear them read far too often and far too badly, and all repetition is anti-spiritual.
0	Her husband died many years ago.
0	He had been seen, so the tale ran, pressing his warm lips to the marble brow of an antique statue that had been discovered in the bed of the river on the occasion of the building of the stone bridge, and was inscribed with the name of the Bithynian slave of Hadrian.
0	Health is the primary duty of life.
0	[_R.C._]  Oh, don’t say that, Lady Windermere.
0	Poor Baron Arnheim—you remember the Baron?—used to tell me you had some wonderful Corots.
0	He wanted me to try some cigars that he strongly recommended.
0	[MRS. CHEVELEY _goes into the drawing-room_.
0	What can they know about it?
0	The wan mirrors get back their mimic life.
0	It is worth all the gold that is in the world, and is more precious than the rubies of the kings.
0	"I will not part with a petal."
0	But the little Dwarf never looked up, and his sobs grew fainter and fainter, and suddenly he gave a curious gasp, and clutched his side.
0	We have a much better time than they have.
0	He left Samaria a few days since.
0	And to me it is a joy to remember that if he is 'of imagination all compact,' the world itself is of the same substance.
0	The flower seemed to quiver, and then swayed gently to and fro.
0	It must give it up because, as a wise man once said many centuries before Christ, there is such a thing as leaving mankind alone; there is no such thing as governing mankind.
0	The demand of the intellect, as has been well said, is simply to feel itself alive.
0	[Picture: Decorative graphic of wreath] The Devoted Friend.
0	Women are not meant to judge us, but to forgive us when we need forgiveness.
0	And now that we have finally got rid of this Mr. Bunbury, may I ask, Mr. Worthing, who is that young person whose hand my nephew Algernon is now holding in what seems to me a peculiarly unnecessary manner?
0	The fact is, that civilisation requires slaves.
0	Pale, sickly-looking children were crouched on the huge crossbeams.
0	It sounded so sweet to his ears that he thought it must be the King’s musicians passing by.
0	What is it to you if she dance on blood?
0	what a thing I must have worshipped!
0	But has he found indeed another love?
0	“‘Dear little Hans,’ said the Miller, ‘would you mind carrying this sack of flour for me to market?’ “‘Oh, I am so sorry,’ said Hans, ‘but I am really very busy to-day.
0	Surely, I think thou art jesting.
0	[_Taking back letter and leaving it on table_.]
0	I am sure she is looking for lovers.
0	I don't think I have ever seen it since he finished it.
0	I felt, Dorian, that I had told too much, that I had put too much of myself into it.
0	Why do you take a house for her?
0	It is the only civilised form of autobiography, as it deals not with the events, but with the thoughts of one’s life; not with life’s physical accidents of deed or circumstance, but with the spiritual moods and imaginative passions of the mind.
0	It makes princes of those who have it.
0	Yea, sire, He raiseth the dead.
0	I gave it to you before it existed."
0	It is a public scandal the way I adore you.
0	And there should be far more dress rehearsals than there are now.
0	You didn’t tell me you had a party.
0	Dorian, you don't know what is said about you.
0	You allow him to revile your wife?
0	There is an extraordinary charm in them, sometimes," said Lord Henry.
0	But I know you appreciate that, dear.
0	Was the face on the canvas viler than before?
0	I suppose that is meant for a compliment.
0	He spoke slowly and with effort.
0	I am afraid you don’t appreciate America, Lord Illingworth.
0	I won’t let you know my daughter, you are far too wicked.
0	And as I was driving in your direction, I thought I would take the opportunity of returning your property in person with many apologies for my carelessness, and of bidding you good-bye.
0	Nowadays, with our modern mania for morality, every one has to pose as a paragon of purity, incorruptibility, and all the other seven deadly virtues—and what is the result?
0	Yet, every morning the doors of the city are thrown open, and on foot, or in horse-drawn chariot, the warriors go forth to battle, and mock their enemies from behind their iron masks.
0	Your mother seems not to like your coming with me, for some reason.
0	He felt that the secret of the whole thing was not to realize the situation.
0	It certainly was a marvellous sight.
0	And this was certainly true.
0	I am no son of thine to do thy bidding.’ ‘Thou speakest truly,’ answered the Woodcutter, ‘yet did I show thee pity when I found thee in the forest.’ And when the woman heard these words she gave a loud cry, and fell into a swoon.
0	More beautiful were they than aught that he had ever seen.
0	Do you want to kill his love for you?
0	asked the duchess, raising her large hands in wonder and accentuating the verb.
0	Why, I can't even recognize Grosvenor Square.
0	I stood by the stall of a seller of dates and waited.
0	He is in _Romeo and Juliet_, in the _Winter's Tale_, in Provencal poetry, in the _Ancient Mariner_, in _La Belle Dame sans merci_, and in Chatterton's _Ballad of Charity_.
0	What we should call country?
0	Better than Wordsworth himself I know what Wordsworth meant when he said--    'Suffering is permanent, obscure, and dark    And has the nature of infinity.'
0	But she is wonderfully cheerful, wonderfully cheerful.
0	A horrible odour filled the place.
0	Mother, forgive me: I have been to blame.
0	Cecily Cardew: Miss Evelyn Millard.
0	Poor Jack was afterwards shot in a duel by Lord Canterville on Wandsworth Common, and Lady Barbara died of a broken heart at Tunbridge Wells before the year was out, so, in every way, it had been a great success.
0	He subsequently stayed to tea, and devoured every single muffin.
0	I see you are quite as wilful as you used to be.
0	Yes; I am passing sad to-night.
0	I think it is perfectly absurd.
0	We have had no complaints about them, madam, as yet.
0	I am changed, and the mere touch of Sibyl Vane's hand makes me forget you and all your wrong, fascinating, poisonous, delightful theories."
0	Scott, the editor of the _London Magazine_, struck by the young man’s genius, or under the influence of the strange fascination that he exercised on every one who knew him, invited him to write a series of articles on artistic subjects, and under a series of fanciful pseudonym he began to contribute to the literature of his day.
0	The last two occasions on which I was allowed to see my friends here, I tried to be as cheerful as possible, and to show my cheerfulness, in order to make them some slight return for their trouble in coming all the way from town to see me.
0	He had worn it with great success at the Kenilworth tournament, and had been highly complimented on it by no less a person than the Virgin Queen herself.
0	Well, while you have been playing, I have been turning over the pages with some amusement, though, as a rule, I dislike modern memoirs.
0	The beautiful passage--     Thou knowest the mask of night is on my face,     Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek     For that which thou hast heard me speak to-night-- was declaimed with the painful precision of a schoolgirl who has been taught to recite by some second-rate professor of elocution.
0	_The room becomes almost dark_.
0	"I am quite satisfied with my own name, and I am sure Mr. Gray should be satisfied with his."
0	We went out for a moment and then got chatting together.
0	[_In her most nonchalant manner_.]
0	In the fair raiment of a king he stood before them, and the organ pealed out its music, and the trumpeters blew upon their trumpets, and the singing boys sang.
0	You come down here to console me.
0	With reference to the charge of plagiarism brought against "Salomé" and its author, I venture to mention a personal recollection.
0	I will kiss it now....
0	She had yellow legs, and webbed feet, and was considered a great beauty on account of her waddle.
0	And neither crocus, nor anemone, nor narcissus was as fair as she was.
0	The ortolans were delightful, and the Chambertin perfect, and now let us return to the point at issue.
0	She is the most dangerous woman I know.
0	[_Takes card and looks at it_.]
0	"You must lend me these, Basil," he cried.
0	We can forgive a man for making a useful thing as long as he does not admire it.
0	The author is perfectly truthful, and describes things exactly as they happen.
0	[_Sits in chair R. of L.
0	"Sibyl is the only thing I care about.
0	I can't tell you what it was, but it was terrible.
0	What gain would you get?
0	When one contemplates all this from the point of view of art alone one cannot but be grateful that the supreme office of the Church should be the playing of the tragedy without the shedding of blood: the mystical presentation, by means of dialogue and costume and gesture even, of the Passion of her Lord; and it is always a source of pleasure and awe to me to remember that the ultimate survival of the Greek chorus, lost elsewhere to art, is to be found in the servitor answering the priest at Mass.
0	Art itself is really a form of exaggeration; and selection, which is the very spirit of art, is nothing more than an intensified mode of over-emphasis.
0	I like people to ask me how I am.
0	Or that passion to act a part that sometimes makes us do things finer than we are ourselves?
0	Oscar Wilde immediately announced his intention of changing his nationality, a characteristic jest, which was only taken seriously, oddly enough, in Ireland.
0	It is so now, and it has always been so.
0	We are taking the short cut across your pretty garden.
0	But I do not approve of mercenary marriages.
0	One might point out how Louis XIV., by creating the modern state, destroyed the individualism of the artist, and made things monstrous in their monotony of repetition, and contemptible in their conformity to rule, and destroyed throughout all France all those fine freedoms of expression that had made tradition new in beauty, and new modes one with antique form.
0	Her hair was as a wet fleece of gold, and each separate hair as a thread of fine gold in a cup of glass.
0	Let us go to the park."
0	What this century worships is wealth.
0	I mean certainly not, air.
0	Really, if it had been arranged beforehand, it could not have turned out better for him; but, Princes are always lucky.” “Dear me!” said the little Squib, “I thought it was quite the other way, and that we were to be let off in the Prince’s honour.” “It may be so with you,” he answered; “indeed, I have no doubt that it is, but with me it is different.
0	‘My soul is nought to me,’ he answered.
0	Wonder what Lady Chiltern has got to say to me?
0	Then at another signal they all flung themselves again to the ground and lay there quite still, the dull strumming of the zithers being the only sound that broke the silence.
0	charming!” The last item on the programme was a grand display of fireworks, to be let off exactly at midnight.
0	The monks went in front singing sweetly, and carrying bright banners and crosses of gold, and then, in silver armour, with matchlocks and pikes, came the soldiers, and in their midst walked three barefooted men, in strange yellow dresses painted all over with wonderful figures, and carrying lighted candles in their hands.
0	He spake ever very low.
0	They talked to each other across the theatre and shared their oranges with the tawdry girls who sat beside them.
0	The two people who could have described you were dead.
0	I am afraid it is right at the top of the house.
0	Out of the Carpenter's shop at Nazareth had come a personality infinitely greater than any made by myth and legend, and one, strangely enough, destined to reveal to the world the mystical meaning of wine and the real beauties of the lilies of the field as none, either on Cithaeron or at Enna, had ever done.
0	We rank among the outcasts Gerald is nameless.
0	It was long after seven when Campbell came back into the library.
0	I remember I wanted to buy it.
0	I am afraid I must go, Lady Hunstanton.
0	It cannot help being so.
0	and how bitterly I have been punished for it!
0	"Dorian," said Lord Henry at last, as the _chaud-froid_ was being handed round, "what is the matter with you to-night?
0	What could have put such an idea into your pretty little head?
0	Makes one very unpopular at the club .
0	I took a horned adder from beneath a stone and let it sting me.
0	"Is Monmouth to be there, too?"
0	I assure you I have not thought of Lady Stutfield for the last quarter of an hour.
0	realize your youth while you have it.
0	After he had taken the button-hole out of his coat, he seemed to hesitate.
0	If the Otis family did not want it, they clearly did not deserve it.
0	[Takes the card and reads it.]
0	_Suddenly smiles and looks back at him_.]
0	It is a delightful way of opening the day.
0	But are you really going for a walk with me?
0	[Examines diary through her lorgnettte carefully.]
0	It is mentally and morally injurious to man to do anything in which he does not find pleasure, and many forms of labour are quite pleasureless activities, and should be regarded as such.
0	Hallward shook his head, as he entered, and followed Dorian into the library.
0	[Goes over and takes sandwich.]
0	I once wore nothing but violets all through one season, as a form of artistic mourning for a romance that would not die.
0	For they give us the bald, sordid, disgusting facts of life.
0	humbug!” at the top of their voices.
0	Women love us for our defects.
0	Go back to that child who even now, in pain or in joy, may be calling to you.
0	But the little ducks paid no attention to her.
0	And yet the democracy have not so far to stoop as the emperor.
0	He remembered it as if it had been the lash of a hunting-crop across his face.
0	I congratulate you, my dear fellow.
0	Oh, there is only one real tragedy in a woman’s life.
0	What shall I do now, Jokanaan?
0	You want to exhibit it?"
0	Her capacity for family affection is extraordinary.
0	She was transfigured with joy.
0	Yes, quite as I expected.
0	you must find it very draughty, I should fancy.
0	And at the bottom of the pool the piece of yellow gold was lying.
0	Armed cap-à-pie, the dead King stalks on the battlements of Elsinore because all is not right with Denmark; Shylock’s Jewish gaberdine is part of the stigma under which that wounded and embittered nature writhes; Arthur begging for his life can think of no better plea than the handkerchief he had given Hubert—     Have you the heart?
0	cried the little Duke, laughing, and they galloped on to the railway station.
0	His father was a king.
0	[MRS. ARBUTHNOT _enters from terrace behind in a cloak with a lace veil over her head_.
0	Take it, and do with it what you will.
0	I will write and tell her about it, and ask her to come up and meet him.
0	if any man sought to kill me, I would cry out, I would struggle, I would not suffer.... Strike, strike, Naaman, strike, I tell you.... No, I hear nothing.
0	Believe me, no civilized man ever regrets a pleasure, and no uncivilized man ever knows what a pleasure is."
0	An African juggler followed, who brought in a large flat basket covered with a red cloth, and having placed it in the centre of the arena, he took from his turban a curious reed pipe, and blew through it.
0	Did you really, Miss Prism?
0	What could I know of such things?
0	It is rather a bore.
0	Then there are other stories--stories that you have been seen creeping at dawn out of dreadful houses and slinking in disguise into the foulest dens in London.
0	There is no error more common than that of thinking that those who are the causes or occasions of great tragedies share in the feelings suitable to the tragic mood: no error more fatal than expecting it of them.
0	In fact, it is quite unpractical, and, as in this age to be practical is everything, I shall go back to Philosophy and study Metaphysics.” So he returned to his room and pulled out a great dusty book, and began to read.
0	There is something of the martyr about her.
0	Beauty has as many meanings as man has moods.
0	I have a particular reason for asking you.
0	Shakespeare, writing two hundred years after, makes the king’s fondness for gay apparel and foreign fashions a point in the play, from John of Gaunt’s reproaches down to Richard’s own speech in the third act on his deposition from the throne.
0	The sound of the popping of corks came from the bar.
0	Give me rainy weather and a ditch, and I am quite happy.
0	My dear Laura, I wouldn’t dream of going!
0	The world would simply say that he was mad.
0	She can bid the almond-tree blossom in winter, and send the snow upon the ripe cornfield.
0	If you don't take care, your friend Bunbury will get you into a serious scrape some day.
0	It will not give him pleasure.
0	Lady Chiltern, I have sometimes thought that .
0	Lots of people die of apoplexy, quite suddenly, don't they?
0	GERALD  [_He is quite beside himself with rage and indignation_.]
0	It is with the exception that we have to do.
0	A terrible hope fluttered past him.
0	"We are only at the beginning of our friendship, Dorian," answered Lord Henry, shaking him by the hand.
0	It makes one so liable to be misunderstood.
0	When he entered, she looked at him, and an expression of infinite joy came over her.
0	Come at once to me.
0	why didn't you tell me that the only thing worth loving is an actress?"
0	‘Loose me,’ she cried, ‘and let me go.
0	The next day the ghost was very weak and tired.
0	Surely for that reason, if for none other, you should not have made his sister's name a by-word."
0	Give it to me at once.
0	I might find out by that.
0	"I am so glad I have found you, Dorian," he said gravely.
0	Some red star had come too close to the earth.... And yet, what evidence was there against him?
0	For what is mind but motion in the intellectual sphere?
0	“Here is the reddest rose in all the world.
0	I have never admired him so much before.
0	His life with her would be beautiful and pure.
0	It is, of all our visible arts, the one art that creates in us both mood and temperament.
0	The only beautiful things are the things that do not concern us.
0	To your work, child, these speculations are profitless.
0	I could not bear your doing either of those two things.
0	Is the silly fellow to get angry and call out, and disturb the play, and annoy the artists?
0	She accepts public disgrace in the house of another to save me.
0	"My dear Harry, we either lunch or sup together every day, and I have been to the opera with you several times," said Dorian, opening his blue eyes in wonder.
0	Nor are the examples of the employment of costume as a mode of intensifying dramatic situation less numerous.
0	I tell you there is a wind that blows.... And I hear in the air something that is like the beating of wings, like the beating of vast wings.
0	Dr. Chasuble, I hope you are well?
0	Yes, darling, with a little help from others.
0	Thus, at a marriage which took place in a little town of Galilee, a town of some importance, He changed water into wine.
0	All association must be quite voluntary.
0	"I wonder is that really so, Harry?"
0	It was with a renewed feeling of disappointment that she waved the tattered lace handkerchief from the window, as her son drove away.
0	The bride and bridegroom, for instance, love each other very dearly.
0	I am quite aware of that.
0	What then do you propose?
0	Such a view would have been wrong there and then, and would, of course, be still more wrong now and in England; for as man moves northward the material necessities of life become of more vital importance, and our society is infinitely more complex, and displays far greater extremes of luxury and pauperism than any society of the antique world.
0	That is not very pleasant.
0	As for modern journalism, it is not my business to defend it.
0	They were so young that they did not know what an advantage it is to be in society at all.
0	Well, the fact of having met you, and loved you, will teach her to despise her husband, and she will be wretched.
0	They have exhausted the faith-faculty of the species.
0	People who don’t keep their appointments in the Park are horrid.
0	Mr. Worthing, I suppose, has not returned from town yet?
0	Over the gable were "two golden apples, in which were two carbuncles," so that the gold might shine by day and the carbuncles by night.
0	The pillars, which were of cedar, were hung with strings of yellow lynx-stones.
0	Never have I seen her so pale.
0	"My dear fellow, I congratulate you most warmly," he said.
0	I don’t know that I should like that either.
0	She was a Stratton, Caroline, one of Lord Crowland’s daughters.
0	It was always springtime once in my heart.
0	The beggar goes to heaven because he has been unhappy.
0	Often, on returning home from one of those mysterious and prolonged absences that gave rise to such strange conjecture among those who were his friends, or thought that they were so, he himself would creep upstairs to the locked room, open the door with the key that never left him now, and stand, with a mirror, in front of the portrait that Basil Hallward had painted of him, looking now at the evil and aging face on the canvas, and now at the fair young face that laughed back at him from the polished glass.
0	I analysed you, though you did not adore me.
0	"I don't think there will be any difficulty about that.
0	I am so glad you have called.
0	[_He rushes towards her_, _but_ MRS. CHEVELEY _at once puts her hand on the electric bell that is on the table_.
0	"It was here I found her, and she is divine beyond all living things.
0	It will never argue or dispute.
0	Upon my word, you are very romantic to-night, Darlington.
0	"I fear you are right," answered Mr. Erskine.
0	I should like to wear nice things awfully, but I have always been told that a man should not think too much about his clothes.
0	If we have enough of them, they will forgive us everything, even our intellects.
0	If you really desire it, Mrs. Erlynne.
0	Tout doit être subordonné à ce but.
0	You spoil him, Caroline, you do indeed!
0	He is charming when he says, 'Take no thought for the morrow; is not the soul more than meat?
0	Property not merely has duties, but has so many duties that its possession to any large extent is a bore.
0	[He seizes the muffin-dish from Jack.]
0	Thy body is white like the lilies of a field that the mower hath never mowed.
0	His was the most ruined life know.
0	They would be happy together.
0	He does—well, he does nothing, which I am afraid our pretty American visitor here thinks very wrong of anybody, and I don’t know that he cares much for the subjects in which you are so interested, dear Mrs. Arbuthnot.
0	Did you ever hear such a thing, Caroline?
0	He has even forbidden the high priest to speak with him.
0	Well, I suppose the type of husband has completely changed since my young days, but I’m bound to state that poor dear Hunstanton was the most delightful of creatures, and as good as gold.
0	Is not that somewhat premature?
0	Certainly, a great deal may be done by means of cheap entertainments, as you say, Lord Illingworth.
0	He will not tell us his name, and we tear the hair in handfuls from the screaming skull.
0	"Am I to go, Mr.
0	But he was not a remarkable figure in society, and consequently he escaped, to a certain degree.
0	At last he got up from the sofa on which he had been lying, went over to it, and having unlocked it, touched some hidden spring.
0	"The people are still discussing poor Basil's disappearance."
0	They can make the worse appear the better cause, as though they were fresh from Leontine schools, and have been known to wrest from reluctant juries triumphant verdicts of acquittal for their clients, even when those clients, as often happens, were clearly and unmistakeably innocent.
0	He began to wonder whether we could ever make psychology so absolute a science that each little spring of life would be revealed to us.
0	He wanted to marry beneath him.
0	Who cares what happens to them?
0	I should tell you, by the way, that the story was translated from some dead Russian writer, so that the author had not taken his type from my friend.
0	It is the one thing that keeps her in touch with civilised man.
0	You take far too much interest in the first subject, and not nearly enough in the second.
0	What was he doing there?
0	This is the secret of Nature’s charm, as well as the explanation of Nature’s weakness.
0	But it is after seven, father, and my doctor says I must not have any serious conversation after seven.
0	Of course she killed herself."
0	It were better to say that stains of blood are as lovely as rose petals.
0	There was nothing to be afraid of, there.
0	He showed that the spirit alone was of value.
0	All I want is to be .
0	She wore a dress of gold tissue embroidered with peacocks’ eyes, and a little cap of green velvet was on her head.
0	When the half-hour struck, he passed his hand across his forehead, and then got up hastily and dressed himself with even more than his usual care, giving a good deal of attention to the choice of his necktie and scarf-pin and changing his rings more than once.
0	The coarse brawl, the loathsome den, the crude violence of disordered life, the very vileness of thief and outcast, were more vivid, in their intense actuality of impression, than all the gracious shapes of art, the dreamy shadows of song.
0	I should be miserable if I thought I should ever be more serious than I am at the present moment."
0	I can understand archæology being attacked on the ground of its excessive realism, but to attack it as pedantic seems to be very much beside the mark.
0	Poetry gave him ‘Laodamia,’ and the fine sonnets, and the great Ode, such as it is.
0	He had the key, and no one else could enter it.
0	Many of his _dramatis personæ_ are people who had actually existed, and some of them might have been seen in real life by a portion of his audience.
0	You are my best friend.
0	People are afraid of themselves, nowadays.
0	And after that they had unrobed him, he looked at them and said, ‘What are the flowers that stand on the altar, and whence do they come?’ And they answered him, ‘What flowers they are we cannot tell, but they come from the corner of the Fullers’ Field.’  And the Priest trembled, and returned to his own house and prayed.
0	Oh, I couldn’t, I couldn’t!
0	"She behaves as if she was beautiful.
0	She clothed her children in strange raiment and gave them masks, and at her bidding the antique world rose from its marble tomb.
0	And after the second year was over, the Soul said to the young Fisherman at night-time, and as he sat in the wattled house alone, ‘Lo!
0	But don't waste your tears over Sibyl Vane.
0	Algernon Moncrieff: Mr. Allen Aynesworth.
0	From the point of view of subject, a healthy work of art is one the choice of whose subject is conditioned by the temperament of the artist, and comes directly out of it.
0	Yes, Mr. Erskine, an absolutely reasonable people.
0	Do you think she will ever get into this demmed thing called Society?
0	May I ask what you were doing in my drawing-room?
0	And Lady Chiltern has a very ennobling effect on life, though her dinner-parties are rather dull sometimes.
0	We do not know, sire.
0	But there is no doubt that the young man in question is a perfect gentleman.
0	What have women who have not sinned to do with me, or I with them?
0	"Then what should we call you, Harry?"
0	‘He should drink poppy-juice, and go to sleep for a thousand years,’ said the great scarlet Lilies, and they grew quite hot and angry.
0	But now that I see you, I feel that nothing in the whole world would induce me to live under the same roof as Lord Windermere.
0	They are charmingly artificial, but they have no sense of art.
0	If a personality fascinates me, whatever mode of expression that personality selects is absolutely delightful to me.
0	"Why, man, it's nigh on eighteen years since Prince Charming made me what I am."
0	What was it to him how vile and full of shame it looked?
0	There is something about you that stirs the wildest—rage within me.
0	All such experiments are terribly dangerous.
0	The fact of a man being a poisoner is nothing against his prose.
0	“Everybody went to little Hans’ funeral, as he was so popular, and the Miller was the chief mourner.
0	we women should forgive everything, shouldn’t we, dear Mrs. Arbuthnot?
0	Your Christian names are still an insuperable barrier.
0	Then I want you to say a few words to the effect that the Government is going to reconsider the question, and that you have reason to believe that the Canal, if completed, will be of great international value.
0	A large press, inlaid with agate and lapis-lazuli, filled one corner, and facing the window stood a curiously wrought cabinet with lacquer panels of powdered and mosaiced gold, on which were placed some delicate goblets of Venetian glass, and a cup of dark-veined onyx.
0	And ever did his Soul tempt him with evil, and whisper of terrible things.
0	When the Huns lured the king into the great pit, he flung it away--Procopius tells the story--nor was it ever found again, though the Emperor Anastasius offered five hundred-weight of gold pieces for it.
0	I didn’t think so then.
0	The happiness of more than one life depends on your answer.
0	For how shall the people know that thou art a king, if thou hast not a king’s raiment?’ And the young King looked at him.
0	"You will have tea, of course, Dorian?
0	A third-rate actress with a pretty face."
0	A diamond snake-brooch with a ruby?
0	I see new developments in art and life, each one of which is a fresh mode of perfection.
0	I was afraid there might be something in it that I wouldn't like.
0	Did he not prophesy it?
0	Dorian, you must not stay here any longer.
0	It is the secret of your mother’s happiness.
0	"Too much of yourself in it!
0	"Ah, my dear Basil, that is exactly why I can feel it.
0	Come to the club with Basil and myself.
0	To them he seemed to be of the company of those whom Dante describes as having sought to "make themselves perfect by the worship of beauty."
0	Who taught them the trick of tyranny?
0	Bring some hock and seltzer.
0	Pray be calm, Lady Chiltern, and answer the questions I am going to put to you.
0	In the palace as in the desert God is always with him.... At least it is possible.
0	‘No doubt there will always be critics who, like a certain writer in the _Saturday Review_, will gravely censure the teller of fairy tales for his defective knowledge of natural history, who will measure imaginative work by their own lack of any imaginative faculty, and will hold up their ink-stained hands in horror if some honest gentleman, who has never been farther than the yew-trees of his own garden, pens a fascinating book of travels like Sir John Mandeville, or, like great Raleigh, writes a whole history of the world, without knowing anything whatsoever about the past.
0	What the second duty is, no one has as yet discovered.
0	From the pulpit of Niccola Pisano down to Mantegna’s ‘Triumph of Cæsar,’ and the service Cellini designed for King Francis, the influence of this spirit can be traced; nor was it confined merely to the immobile arts—the arts of arrested movement—but its influence was to be seen also in the great Græco-Roman masques which were the constant amusement of the gay courts of the time, and in the public pomps and processions with which the citizens of big commercial towns were wont to greet the princes that chanced to visit them; pageants, by the way, which were considered so important that large prints were made of them and published—a fact which is a proof of the general interest at the time in matters of such kind.
0	Had he come himself, I admit I would have gone back to the life of degradation you and he had prepared for me—I was going back—but to stay himself at home, and to send you as his messenger—oh!
0	They have the charm of being fashionable.
0	But what first made you think of doing such a thing?
0	The King is there himself in his painted coffin.
0	Her hands seemed to be made of cool ivory.
0	Believe me, you are better than most other men, and I sometimes think you pretend to be worse.
0	He thought that he was wandering through a dim wood, hung with strange fruits and with beautiful poisonous flowers.
0	[_Coming down C._, _and shaking hands_.]
0	"But don't people say that he was murdered?"
0	The world draws them from our side, and they make friends with whom they are happier than they are with us, and have amusements from which we are barred, and interests that are not ours: and they are unjust to us often, for when they find life bitter they blame us for it, and when they find it sweet we do not taste its sweetness with them .
0	Oh, Gwendolen is as right as a trivet.
0	They waited some time for her, but she did not come down again.
0	My father told me to go to bed an hour ago.
0	For the historical plays, then, we may be sure that archæology was employed, and as for the others I feel certain that it was the case also.
0	The two men sauntered languidly to the table and examined what was under the covers.
0	It is absurd to divide people into good and bad.
0	Lady Jedburgh and Miss Graham.
0	"How fond women are of doing dangerous things!"
0	We have mistaken the common livery of the age for the vesture of the Muses, and spend our days in the sordid streets and hideous suburbs of our vile cities when we should be out on the hillside with Apollo.
0	What a bore it is to have to be civil to these old dowagers!
0	I live on hopes now.
0	His hands were clenched, and the pupils of his eyes were like disks of blue fire.
0	But at least it makes the future better, better for you, mother.
0	I remember hearing, at the time of his death, that he had been mixed up in the whole affair.
0	It seems years ago to me now.
0	MRS. CHEVELEY [_With an impertinent smile_.]
0	That is a matter for me, sir.
0	All the things in God’s world he blessed, and the people were filled with joy and wonder.
0	On being brought before the judges,     however, he begged to be allowed to withdraw the former plea, and     then pleaded guilty to two of the indictments which were not of a     capital nature.
0	He, too, felt that we were destined to know each other."
0	I must shake hands with Lady Markby.
0	But, to get rid of the details of history, which are always wearisome and usually inaccurate, let us say generally, that the forms of art have been due to the Greek critical spirit.
0	Yes, life had decided that for him--life, and his own infinite curiosity about life.
0	Ask Mr. Ernest Worthing to come here.
0	The picture had not changed.
0	I heard all about them this morning from a brown-paper cartridge, who happened to be staying in the same drawer as myself, and knew the latest Court news.” But the Catherine Wheel shook her head.
0	On a table by her side lay a mandolin and an apple.
0	am I to wait attendance on you?
0	You allow of no exceptions?
0	Ernest has just been telling me about his poor invalid friend Mr. Bunbury whom he goes to visit so often.
0	There is one on that table.
0	How the words rang in his ears!
0	Cecil, if one really loves a woman, all other women in the world become absolutely meaningless to one.
0	[_Coughs slightly and smooths his hair_.]
0	They say you have no ruins, and no curiosities.
0	But don’t the people to whom you owe the money give you a great, great deal of annoyance?
0	"That shall be given to you upstairs.
0	But true American society consists simply of all the good women and good men we have in our country.
0	Bitter, bitter was his joy, and full of strange gladness was his pain.
0	It is perfectly childish to be in deep mourning for a man who is actually staying for a whole week with you in your house as a guest.
0	The world worships the woman, even now, as a saint.
0	And at dawn he would tap at the shutters and wake her, and they would go out and dance together all the day long.
0	There was a rather heavy bill for a chased silver Louis-Quinze toilet-set that he had not yet had the courage to send on to his guardians, who were extremely old-fashioned people and did not realize that we live in an age when unnecessary things are our only necessities; and there were several very courteously worded communications from Jermyn Street money-lenders offering to advance any sum of money at a moment's notice and at the most reasonable rates of interest.
0	With his curious reserved habits, it would be months before any suspicions would be roused.
0	They know how useful passion is for publication.
0	You sully the innocence that is in her.
0	Life goes faster than Realism, but Romanticism is always in front of Life.
0	But to have continued the same life would have been wrong because it would have been limiting.
0	Oh, Gerald and I are great friends already, Mrs .
0	I will speak with him.
0	Charity, as even those of whose religion it makes a formal part have been compelled to acknowledge, creates a multitude of evils.
0	There is also this to be said.
0	He is one who is admitted to contemplate the work of art, and, if the work be fine, to forget in its contemplation and the egotism that mars him—the egotism of his ignorance, or the egotism of his information.
0	I think the Tetrarch is afraid of him.
0	Of course, our engagement is a dead secret.
0	Lady Stutfield is very sympathetic.
0	He wandered all round looking for some place through which he might gain an entrance, and at last he caught sight of a little private door that was lying open.
0	"American girls are as clever at concealing their parents, as English women are at concealing their past," he said, rising to go.
0	Not even for ready money.
0	One is by being cultured, the other by being corrupt.
0	‘Because his heart is broken,’ answered the Chamberlain.
0	'To-day I broke off my engagement with Ernest.
0	Nothing will induce me to take his hand.
0	Mr. Ernest Worthing is engaged to me.
0	I see I have missed my train.
0	It was a thing to be driven out of the mind, to be drugged with poppies, to be strangled lest it might strangle one itself.
0	And having opened the little door with his ring he set him in the street.
0	The fantastic character of these instruments fascinated him, and he felt a curious delight in the thought that art, like Nature, has her monsters, things of bestial shape and with hideous voices.
0	We are safe from you, and we are going away.
0	In art, as in politics, _les grandperes ont toujours tort_."
0	Will she not be fair as a queen?
0	[Algernon crosses and hands tea.]
0	They are made for you.
0	[_Brightening to a look of real pleasure_.]
0	They painted many religious pictures—in fact, they painted far too many, and the monotony of type and motive is wearisome, and was bad for art.
0	What answer will you make to God if his life is ruined through you?
0	And, yet, how vivid was his recollection of the whole thing!
0	When they appeared, it seemed to her that she was compelled to reproduce them in life, and she did so.
0	She is always refusing people.
0	At least I don’t think so.
0	It had taught him to love his own beauty.
0	She and my father had bequeathed me a name they had made noble and honoured, not merely in literature, art, archaeology, and science, but in the public history of my own country, in its evolution as a nation.
0	The painter may have been merely the slave of an archaic smile, as some have fancied, but whenever I pass into the cool galleries of the Palace of the Louvre, and stand before that strange figure ‘set in its marble chair in that cirque of fantastic rocks, as in some faint light under sea,’ I murmur to myself, ‘She is older than the rocks among which she sits; like the vampire, she has been dead many times, and learned the secrets of the grave; and has been a diver in deep seas, and keeps their fallen day about her: and trafficked for strange webs with Eastern merchants; and, as Leda, was the mother of Helen of Troy, and, as St. Anne, the mother of Mary; and all this has been to her but as the sound of lyres and flutes, and lives only in the delicacy with which it has moulded the changing lineaments, and tinged the eyelids and the hands.’  And I say to my friend, ‘The presence that thus so strangely rose beside the waters is expressive of what in the ways of a thousand years man had come to desire’; and he answers me, ‘Hers is the head upon which all “the ends of the world are come,” and the eyelids are a little weary.’ And so the picture becomes more wonderful to us than it really is, and reveals to us a secret of which, in truth, it knows nothing, and the music of the mystical prose is as sweet in our ears as was that flute-player’s music that lent to the lips of La Gioconda those subtle and poisonous curves.
0	I am telling you the truth.
0	I was merely expressing sympathy.
0	As for a title, a title is really rather a nuisance in these democratic days.
0	Pain, unlike pleasure, wears no mask.
0	Of course all this is foreshadowed and prefigured in my books.
0	Then in black or red he painted lads wrestling, or in the race: knights in full armour, with strange heraldic shields and curious visors, leaning from shell-shaped chariot over rearing steeds: the gods seated at the feast or working their miracles: the heroes in their victory or in their pain.
0	There were vine leaves in her hair.
0	By your pomp we are nurtured, and your vices give us bread.
0	They are the last refuge of the complex.
0	I am afraid I am engaged, Lady Jedburgh.
0	In this passage, written, the author tells us, ‘in awe and reverence,’ there is much that is terrible, and very much that is quite horrible, but it is not without a certain crude form of power, or, at any rate, a certain crude violence of words, a quality which this age should highly appreciate, as it is its chief defect.
0	He died abroad; in Paris, in fact.
0	Too much is known about them.
0	Arthur, I couldn’t tell my wife.
0	Fortunately you have not the chance, Mrs. Cheveley.
0	I couldn't be happy if I didn't see him every day.
0	And of everything that he met he made inquiry if perchance they had seen his mother.
0	Both these gentlemen have expressed a desire for immediate baptism.
0	The affair to which you allude was no more than a speculation.
0	I believe it _is_ a very pleasant state, sir.
0	But his hand seems to have lost its cunning.
0	Well, my proposal is this.
0	"Now, mind you don't stay too long over your politics and scandal," cried Lady Narborough from the door.
0	For I see none here but this vile beggar-woman.’ And the woman answered him, ‘I am thy mother.’ ‘Thou art mad to say so,’ cried the Star-Child angrily.
0	I have but a hundred, and in the whole world there is no king who has peacocks like unto my peacocks.
0	If we women did not love you for your defects, where would you all be?
0	One discerns things one never discerned before.
0	The popular standard is of such a character that no artist can get to it.
0	When I go out of prison, R--- will be waiting for me on the other side of the big iron-studded gate, and he is the symbol, not merely of his own affection, but of the affection of many others besides.
0	To the Editor of The Times.
0	Those whom he saved from their sins are saved simply for beautiful moments in their lives.
0	I had no idea that some day this would become to me one of the greatest temptations of my life.
0	I will give it to you now, if you promise to marry me.
0	And he cried out to his comrade that he had found the treasure that had fallen from the sky, and when his comrade had come up, they sat them down in the snow, and loosened the folds of the cloak that they might divide the pieces of gold.
0	“So little Hans worked away in his garden.
0	Tell me, tell me at once, that— LADY CHILTERN.
0	By what will you swear, Tetrarch?
0	The mask of youth had saved him.
0	It is love, and not German philosophy, that is the true explanation of this world, whatever may be the explanation of the next.
0	Someone has done them a great wrong.
0	In any case, she is a monster, without being a myth, which is rather unfair .
0	That is the reason why I want you to be fine.
0	Remember, I slipped in blood when I entered.
0	"They go to America," murmured Lord Henry.
0	It were wiser still to say that behind sorrow there is always a soul.
0	On his head was a mitre of black felt decorated with silver crescents.
0	"He has not yet revealed his real name.
0	And elsewhere he talks learnedly of ‘a delicate Schiavone, various as a tulip-bed, with rich broken tints,’ of ‘a glowing portrait, remarkable for _morbidezza_, by the scarce Moroni,’ and of another picture being ‘pulpy in the carnations.’ But, as a rule, he deals with his impressions of the work as an artistic whole, and tries to translate those impressions into words, to give, as it were, the literary equivalent for the imaginative and mental effect.
0	Elaborate rules were laid down for the guidance of mankind, and an important school of literature grew up round the subject.
0	Yes; poor Bunbury is a dreadful invalid.
0	She doesn't understand how to look after you.
0	At this moment, the door opened and a young lad with rough brown hair came into the room.
0	‘It was not always thus.
0	It may not use it in the sphere that belongs to others.
0	Then the few came to him.
0	Is your name really John?
0	I dare say one has to go to prison to understand it.
0	HESTER _steals towards the door_.
0	"I don't care to go back.
0	What is the name of the man at Richmond who supplies Selby with orchids?"
0	It is quite scandalous, for she is absolutely inadmissible into society.
0	daughter of an incestuous mother, be thou accursed!
0	She is simply a born artist.
0	His eyes were as red burning coals; long grey hair fell over his shoulders in matted coils; his garments, which were of antique cut, were soiled and ragged, and from his wrists and ankles hung heavy manacles and rusty gyves.
0	"Strike me dumb if it ain't so.
0	I came here at once and was miserable at not finding you.
0	Upon my word, Rachel, no woman ever loved me as you did.
0	An age that has no criticism is either an age in which art is immobile, hieratic, and confined to the reproduction of formal types, or an age that possesses no art at all.
0	[_C._]  Ah, about dear Australia, I suppose?
0	But has Lord Illingworth really offered to make Gerald his secretary?
0	that accounts for so much in men that I have never understood, and so much in women that their husbands never appreciate in them!
0	He felt keenly conscious of how barren all intellectual speculation is when separated from action and experiment.
0	From the top of one of the hills quite close one can see five counties.
0	LORD GORING _bites his lip_, _and lights his a cigarette_.]
0	_Stops at looking-glass over mantelpiece and looks into it_.
0	LORD WINDERMERE _moves uneasily about the LORD DARLINGTON.
0	George, don’t take my son away from me.
0	Fortunately in England, at any rate, education produces no effect whatsoever.
0	On a shelf of the bookcase behind you stands the _Divine Comedy_, and I know that, if I open it at a certain place, I shall be filled with a fierce hatred of some one who has never wronged me, or stirred by a great love for some one whom I shall never see.
0	It was the blowing of the wind, no doubt.
0	It was tea-time, and the mellow light of the huge, lace-covered lamp that stood on the table lit up the delicate china and hammered silver of the service at which the duchess was presiding.
0	It always makes me rather cross.
0	I may not be able to save you again.
0	"I don't wish to be unkind, but I can't see you again.
0	But there are good women in society, aren’t there?
0	But there was no other place in the house so secure from prying eyes as this.
0	"I suppose you have come about the unfortunate accident of this morning, Thornton?"
0	What do you call a bad man?
0	One wouldn’t say so from the sort of hats they wear?
0	It is insane of you to ask me."
0	‘They are my servants,’ she answered.
0	Patriotism, I need hardly say, is not a necessary quality of art; but it means, for the artist, the substitution of a universal for an individual feeling, and for the public the presentation of a work of art in a most attractive and popular form.
0	It isn't the sort of thing one should talk of in private.
0	"That mad-cat is sure to be there.
0	"They are both simply forms of imitation," remarked Lord Henry.
0	Suits me down to the ground.
0	Might I have a buttonhole first?
0	How limited in range the creature’s mind proves to be!
0	He went in quietly, locking the door behind him, as was his custom, and dragged the purple hanging from the portrait.
0	Sometimes they fly across the trees, and anon they crouch in the grass, and round the lake.
0	It is infamous, what you propose—infamous!
0	In fact, when they want to throw mud they have not to stoop at all.
0	There was wine in my cup.
0	Oh, I am so glad!
0	There is not the smallest element of excitement in knowing him.
0	The curiously limited number of the myths seems to me to point to this conclusion.
0	Why, my dear Basil, he is a Narcissus, and you--well, of course you have an intellectual expression and all that.
0	At last, however, the fire caught him.
0	And if they will not encourage, at least they must not oppose, a movement of which Shakespeare of all dramatists would have most approved, for it has the illusion of truth for its method, and the illusion of beauty for its result.
0	What there was in it of the purely sensuous instinct of boyhood had been transformed by the workings of the imagination, changed into something that seemed to the lad himself to be remote from sense, and was for that very reason all the more dangerous.
0	Of course, authority and compulsion are out of the question.
0	Arthur, let me see for myself.
0	I assure you we can't bear mediocrities.
0	Don’t let us ever talk about the subject again.
0	Who knows that better than I?
0	At the corner of the pine-wood he caught sight of Sir Geoffrey Clouston, the duchess's brother, jerking two spent cartridges out of his gun.
0	Caroline, shall we all make a move to the music-room?
0	He is a sailor, or something.
0	Even these metallic problems have their melodramatic side.
0	I wish I could afford to do the same."
0	After a man whose heart I broke—after my father.
0	He quivered for a little, and then he was still.
0	_He is a mask with a manner_.
0	He knew where the wood-pigeons built their nests, and once when a fowler had snared the parent birds, he had brought up the young ones himself, and had built a little dovecot for them in the cleft of a pollard elm.
0	Of course, I have done all that.
0	I hear you have such pleasant society in America.
0	"I am not at home to any one, Victor," he said with a sigh.
0	At present I make your mother’s life miserable on your account.
0	That is a gross popular error.
0	But they don't seem to know what thrift is.
0	‘Certainly thou shouldst have been with me.
0	Like Byron, he got out of England as soon as possible.
0	I know where Arthur keeps his bank book—in one of the drawers of that desk.
0	I do not know it.’ ‘What wilt thou give me if I tell thee?’ asked the Witch, looking down at him with her beautiful eyes.
0	God was very good, and would watch over him.
0	The Greeks did this, and when we come in contact with the Greek critical intellect, we cannot but be conscious that, while our subject-matter is in every respect larger and more varied than theirs, theirs is the only method by which this subject-matter can be interpreted.
0	‘That night, as I lay on a cushion in the tea-house that is in the Street of Pomegranates, the guards of the Emperor entered and led me to the palace.
0	Then it began to scramble all over the oval stellated globe of the tiny blossoms.
0	What sort of life would his be if, day and night, shadows of his crime were to peer at him from silent corners, to mock him from secret places, to whisper in his ear as he sat at the feast, to wake him with icy fingers as he lay asleep!
0	He always coughed before he made any observation, so as to attract attention.
0	But what of those who wrote about these things?
0	But, while the laws upon which Art rests may be fixed and certain, to find their true realisation they must be touched by the imagination into such beauty that they will seem an exception, each one of them.
0	After all, it never would have happened if I had not met you.
0	"This will do," he answered, and having got out hastily and given the driver the extra fare he had promised him, he walked quickly in the direction of the quay.
0	It merely shows me my wrinkles.
0	I do not, Lady Hunstanton.
0	I have reached 'absolute perfection'.
0	His nerves were completely shattered, and he started at the slightest noise.
0	[_Goes over to bureau and looks at letter_.
0	But it only pains you because you loved him so much.
0	It is silly of you, for there is only one thing in the world worse than being talked about, and that is not being talked about.
0	Women try their luck; men risk theirs."
0	What of George Willoughby, with his powdered hair and fantastic patches?
0	There is something in your voice that is wonderful.
0	To know anything about oneself one must know all about others.
0	I loved you once, Lord Illingworth.
0	But I was not moved a bit.
0	I feel an awful duffer when I am with you, Lord Illingworth.
0	The vicious cruelty that marred the fine lines of the mouth had, no doubt, appeared at the very moment that the girl had drunk the poison, whatever it was.
0	You would carry off anything gracefully, dear Lord Augustus.
0	I can fancy a man who had led a perfectly commonplace life, hearing by chance some curious piece of music, and suddenly discovering that his soul, without his being conscious of it, had passed through terrible experiences, and known fearful joys, or wild romantic loves, or great renunciations.
0	Oh, I am so very, very glad to hear you say so.
0	At sunrise he strikes with an arrow on a gong, and at sunset he blows through a horn of horn.
0	Musical people are so absurdly unreasonable.
0	And the surf took it from the waves, and the foam took it from the surf, and the shore received it, and lying at his feet the young Fisherman saw the body of the little Mermaid.
0	Indeed, their remedies are part of the disease.
0	There was the trampling of myriad feet and the low buzz of voices.
0	And yet I have come here to do you a service.
0	If a wretched man has a vice, it shows itself in the lines of his mouth, the droop of his eyelids, the moulding of his hands even.
0	I am engaged to Mr. Worthing, mamma.
0	Transcribed from the 1913 Methuen & Co. edition by David Price, email ccx074@pglaf.org.
0	The more he knew, the more he desired to know.
0	Tell me the whole thing.
0	She makes them as responsive as a violin.
0	And, yet, there was the picture before him, with the touch of cruelty in the mouth.
0	Don’t you know that I always succeed in whatever I try?
0	It is not merely in art that the body is the soul.
0	The ugly and the stupid have the best of it in this world.
0	I expect they are saying the most dreadful things about us.
0	He was pale, but absolutely calm.
0	I hope the Woman’s Liberal Association received it with loud applause.
0	Marcus Aurelius was the perfect man, says Renan.
0	I think he’s attracted by dear Agatha’s clever talk.
0	In the market-place stand the fruitsellers, who sell all kinds of fruit: ripe figs, with their bruised purple flesh, melons, smelling of musk and yellow as topazes, citrons and rose-apples and clusters of white grapes, round red-gold oranges, and oval lemons of green gold.
0	You simply disappeared, and carried the child away with you.
0	"Laughter is not at all a bad beginning for a friendship, and it is far the best ending for one," said the young lord, plucking another daisy.
0	I want to get to the point when I shall be able to say quite simply, and without affectation that the two great turning-points in my life were when my father sent me to Oxford, and when society sent me to prison.
0	"The story is simply this," said the painter after some time.
0	You don’t seem to know your own mind for a single moment.
0	Do you know I was awfully afraid of being refused!
0	There were no signs of any change when he looked into the actual painting, and yet there was no doubt that the whole expression had altered.
0	As for the infinite variety of Nature, that is a pure myth.
0	At least, it makes no matter.
0	And at evening he sat him down and wept, and as he was weeping there came to him the little Hare.
0	Nor will man miss it.
0	There came a knock at the door, and the butler entered with a laden tea-tray and set it down upon a small Japanese table.
0	He proposed to me last night in the music-room, when I was quite unprotected, as there was an elaborate trio going on.
0	"I have heaps of time," he answered.
0	Her companion watched her enviously.
0	Take an example from our own day.
0	There is too much of myself in the thing, Harry--too much of myself!"
0	Lord Henry stretched himself out on the divan and laughed.
0	Suddenly a wild hope flashed across his brain.
0	Men have talked so much of him.
0	‘After a little while he spake to me, and asked me my desire.
0	I am so afraid he will look just like every one else.
0	Of course I had to look at it.
0	You shut out from your society the gentle and the good.
0	Here is his account of ‘The Crucifixion,’ by Rembrandt.
0	[_Enter_ LADY CHILTERN _in walking dress_.]
0	"I don't feel up to it," said Dorian listlessly.
0	The longer I study, Ernest, the more clearly I see that the beauty of the visible arts is, as the beauty of music, impressive primarily, and that it may be marred, and indeed often is so, by any excess of intellectual intention on the part of the artist.
0	Charming people, such as fishermen, shepherds, ploughboys, peasants and the like, know nothing about art, and are the very salt of the earth.
0	I hear in much modern Art the cry of Marsyas.
0	To reveal art and conceal the artist is art's aim.
0	They get their clothes in Paris.
0	4, The Albany, W.'  Uncle Jack's brother!
0	And there is nothing so difficult to marry as a large nose; men don’t like them.
0	"I don't want you to meet him."
0	The elaborate character of the frame had made the picture extremely bulky, and now and then, in spite of the obsequious protests of Mr. Hubbard, who had the true tradesman's spirited dislike of seeing a gentleman doing anything useful, Dorian put his hand to it so as to help them.
0	Yes; here is the Prime Minister’s letter.
0	That was when acting was really understood.
0	don't tell me that you are bad, and corrupt, and shameful."
0	You are hardly serious enough.
0	"Harry spends his days in saying what is incredible and his evenings in doing what is improbable.
0	So glad you like it, Miss Fairfax.
0	I’ll go and get it for you, if you’ll excuse me for a moment.
0	I love to see in a fruit the mark of thy little teeth.
0	The amusing caricatures of Wilde which appear in the _Frontispiece_, "Enter Herodias" and "The Eyes of Herod," are the only pieces of vraisemblance in these exquisite designs.
0	Still, there are certain temperaments that marriage makes more complex.
0	Rather than lose your love, Robert would do anything, wreck his whole career, as he is on the brink of doing now.
0	Young men have committed suicide because Rolla did so, have died by their own hand because by his own hand Werther died.
0	The trees are wonderful, Lady Hunstanton.
0	I should fancy in remorse, in suffering, in ... well, in the consciousness of degradation."
0	"I must go out and sit in the garden.
0	If you tell me that they are absolutely untrue from beginning to end, I shall believe you.
0	Certain it was that the old King, when on his deathbed, whether moved by remorse for his great sin, or merely desiring that the kingdom should not pass away from his line, had had the lad sent for, and, in the presence of the Council, had acknowledged him as his heir.
0	And money that comes from a tainted source is a degradation.
0	You only taught me to be vain."
0	The ancient flame wakes within us.
0	There is the despot who tyrannises over the body.
0	I am only going to take my hat off.
0	There was nothing else to see?"
0	He wanted to be where no one would know who he was.
0	She is a woman who wears a mask, like a thing that is a leper.
0	"I am delighted," he answered, smiling.
0	Then he pulled out his watch.
0	It is very curious, my mother never talks to me about my father.
0	[_Speaking with great deliberation and emphasis_.]
0	He says terrible things about my mother, does he not?
0	Cigarettes have at least the charm of leaving one unsatisfied.
0	Never speak to one of them.
0	I was waiting for you to call me Dorian."
0	They become his, because he made them lovely.
0	Still, I am conscious now that behind all this beauty, satisfying though it may be, there is some spirit hidden of which the painted forms and shapes are but modes of manifestation, and it is with this spirit that I desire to become in harmony.
0	_She bows coldly to_ MRS. ERLYNNE, _who bows to her sweetly in turn_, _and sails into the room_.]
0	[Takes one and eats it.]
0	I paid no heed to them, but went and sat with the sellers of strange gods, who by reason of their craft are abominated.
0	You are sure in your heart.
0	And who knows if it will not bring us bad fortune?
0	Mr. Worthing went over in the direction of the Rectory some time ago.
0	Men and women at such moments lose the freedom of their will.
0	He was still incarcerated in 1896, when Mons.
0	I wish it was mine, but Gertrude won’t let me wear anything but pearls, and I am thoroughly sick of pearls.
0	De Quincey saw him once.
0	Did you make a scene with her?"
0	They are to be calm and self-centred.
0	I'm feeling very well, Aunt Augusta.
0	In your place I don’t think I should have the smallest scruple in doing so.
0	How quickly it had all been done!
0	Had he gone to his aunt's, he would have been sure to have met Lord Goodbody there, and the whole conversation would have been about the feeding of the poor and the necessity for model lodging-houses.
0	How little you can know of love, if you say it mars your art!
0	VIVIAN (_reading in a very clear_, _musical voice_).
0	Choice is taken from them, and conscience is either killed, or, if it lives at all, lives but to give rebellion its fascination and disobedience its charm.
0	I have nothing more to say.
0	There is peace for us, and for those who for a season abide in it there is some peace also, though, pale from the poison of the Maremma, Madonna Pia passes before us, and Ismene, with the sorrow of earth still lingering about her, is there.
0	Who is that well-dressed woman talking to Windermere?
0	You treated me as no man has ever dared to treat me--no living man, at any rate.
0	He found in stones the sermons he had already hidden there.
0	And falsehoods the truths of other people.
0	[Cecily begins to write in her diary.]
0	I have just left the Prime Minister, and you are to have the vacant seat in the Cabinet.
0	[_Rising and going towards her_.]
0	But, my dear fellow—excuse me for interrupting you—you seem to me to be allowing your passion for criticism to lead you a great deal too far.
0	Since I have known you, Harry, I have discovered that."
0	I became the spendthrift of my own genius, and to waste an eternal youth gave me a curious joy.
0	[_A chair falls in the drawing-room_.]
0	She tossed her head and raked the coins off the counter with greedy fingers.
0	Well, if even I had the chance, I wouldn’t.
0	He felt as if he had come to look for Miranda and had been met by Caliban.
0	I like Wagner's music better than anybody's.
0	‘And the priest besought me, saying, “Let my lord heal his servant, and I will show him the god.” ‘So I breathed with my breath upon his hand, and it became whole again, and he trembled and led me into the second chamber, and I saw an idol standing on a lotus of jade hung with great emeralds.
0	Behind the barricade there may be much that is noble and heroic.
0	I am sure they were for something charming!
0	There he is one maimed and marred; one who is not comely to look on, because Beauty is a joy; one who is not in fair raiment, because that may be a joy also: he is a beggar who has a marvellous soul; he is a leper whose soul is divine; he needs neither property nor health; he is a God realising his perfection through pain.
0	But if you wish to avoid a public scandal, write at once to this woman, and tell her that I forbid her to come here!
0	It is simply concentrated race-experience.
0	Sugar is not fashionable any more.
0	Miss Prism never says such things to me.
0	A cultured Mahomedan once remarked to us, “You Christians are so occupied in misinterpreting the fourth commandment that you have never thought of making an artistic application of the second.”  He was perfectly right, and the whole truth of the matter is this: The proper school to learn art in is not Life but Art.’ And now let me read you a passage which seems to me to settle the question very completely.
0	_Rather like a portrait by Lawrence_.]
0	It is full of Greek feeling.
0	It is the exquisites who are going to rule.
0	There are no such things.
0	As long as war is regarded as wicked, it will always have its fascination.
0	He had been discovered only the day before, running wild through the forest, by two of the nobles who happened to have been hunting in a remote part of the great cork-wood that surrounded the town, and had been carried off by them to the Palace as a surprise for the Infanta; his father, who was a poor charcoal-burner, being but too well pleased to get rid of so ugly and useless a child.
0	"An artist should create beautiful things, but should put nothing of his own life into them.
0	it shall be done.’ ‘Alas!
0	A severe chill, it seems.
0	When day broke he flew down to the river and had a bath.
0	People thought it dreadful of me to have entertained at dinner the evil things of life, and to have found pleasure in their company.
0	Let her be given what she asks!
0	the winds are dropt—the air is stagnant—a     muttering rumble growls underneath their feet, and some of that     miserable crowd begin to fly down the hill.
0	[_Rising from R. table_, _where he has been writing letters_.]
0	I have said that behind sorrow there is always sorrow.
0	I really must try and induce her to come up here to-night.
0	The final mystery is oneself.
0	Believe me, you are quite unjust to me.
0	Besides, had any stranger been prowling round the house, he would have been seen by the servants or the keepers.
0	He escorted them to their box with a sort of pompous humility, waving his fat jewelled hands and talking at the top of his voice.
0	"I don't think I am likely to marry, Harry.
0	I quite admit that modern novels have many good points.
0	"And now I must bid good-bye to your excellent aunt.
0	You might just as well talk to a brick wall.
0	No wonder Basil Hallward worshipped him.
0	Will you kindly do that, Lady Chiltern?
0	Windermere and I married for love.
0	If so, it may be worth while going to prison.
0	I am afraid I walked too far this morning.
0	He has not said a single word to me yet.
0	And to mock at a soul in pain is a dreadful thing.
0	He is so simple, so sincere.
0	Nay, if he can only get his music by breaking the strings of his lute, he breaks them, and they snap in discord, and no Athenian tettix, making melody from tremulous wings, lights on the ivory horn to make the movement perfect, or the interval less harsh.
0	Schopenhauer has analysed the pessimism that characterises modern thought, but Hamlet invented it.
0	While he was in gaol, Dickens, Macready, and Hablot Browne came across him by chance.
0	What of those who gave them reality, and made them live for ever?
0	I have never said one single word to him about what he did.
0	Creation is always behind the age.
0	Well, at any rate, that is better than being always over-dressed as you are.
0	Why not tell me what it is?
0	But here is the orchestra.
0	_He is wearing a silk hat and Inverness cape_.
0	Don’t suppose I shall see you there again.
0	They hurried about, calling to each other, and no man was idle.
0	As she was running past the Tapestry Chamber, the door of which happened to be open, she fancied she saw some one inside, and thinking it was her mother's maid, who sometimes used to bring her work there, looked in to ask her to mend her habit.
0	There is a great difference."
0	merely Aunt Augusta and Gwendolen.
0	I will go to the well of water and look into it, and it shall tell me of my beauty.’ So he went to the well of water and looked into it, and lo!
0	You hear what he says against me?
0	Crimson was the girdle of petals, and crimson as a ruby was the heart.
0	When I first heard them, I laughed.
0	Action, indeed, is always easy, and when presented to us in its most aggravated, because most continuous form, which I take to be that of real industry, becomes simply the refuge of people who have nothing whatsoever to do.
0	The moon hung low in the sky like a yellow skull.
0	An engagement should come on a young girl as a surprise, pleasant or unpleasant, as the case may be.
0	I must beg you to retire.
0	[_Turns round and goes across with_ GERALD _to_ MRS. ARBUTHNOT.
0	You must play Chopin to me.
0	Tell it to come round next week, at the same hour.
0	“I was saying,” continued the Rocket, “I was saying—What was I saying?” “You were talking about yourself,” replied the Roman Candle.
0	Savages seem to have quite the same views as cultured people on almost all subjects.
0	They moved, as he spoke, like music, and seemed to have a language of their own.
0	I am rather inclined to believe in ‘the impulse from a vernal wood,’ though of course the artistic value of such an impulse depends entirely on the kind of temperament that receives it, so that the return to Nature would come to mean simply the advance to a great personality.
0	Lying for the sake of gaining some immediate personal advantage, for instance—lying with a moral purpose, as it is usually called—though of late it has been rather looked down upon, was extremely popular with the antique world.
0	I never know where my wife is, and my wife never knows what I am doing.
0	In every sphere of life Form is the beginning of things.
0	It is not so common, nowadays, as genius is.
0	And above all, Christ is the most supreme of individualists.
0	Whatever, in fact, is modern in our life we owe to the Greeks.
0	There is a great deal too much of that sort of thing going on nowadays.
0	But he is much more to me than a model or a sitter.
0	With a woman like you?
0	What a nuisance their turning us out of the club at this hour!
0	The man whose life I want must be nearly forty now.
0	There is a beautiful moon to-night.
0	When the picture was finished, and I sat alone with it, I felt that I was right.... Well, after a few days the thing left my studio, and as soon as I had got rid of the intolerable fascination of its presence, it seemed to me that I had been foolish in imagining that I had seen anything in it, more than that you were extremely good-looking and that I could paint.
0	It is always dawn for St. Helena, as Veronese saw her at the window.
0	A practical scheme is either a scheme that is already in existence, or a scheme that could be carried out under existing conditions.
0	I know it is his present.
0	Her death is at your door.
0	The play dragged on, and seemed interminable.
0	Sometimes he says terrible things, but it is impossible to understand what he says.
0	Who is with him to-day?
0	I’m afraid it’s the old, old story, dear.
0	They have become stout and tedious, and when I meet them, they go in at once for reminiscences.
0	Their feet are painted with henna, and in their hands they have little copper bells.
0	Go back, Lady Windermere, to the husband who loves you, whom you love.
0	Indeed, when one remembers the excellent philosophical treatise of Sanchez on the whole question, one cannot help regretting that no one has ever thought of publishing a cheap and condensed edition of the works of that great casuist.
0	Why, she invents hats for me.
0	The poor can think of nothing else.
0	I am quite sure that I loved her.
0	Don’t talk about such people.
0	The only people who were pleased were the Snow and the Frost.
0	Especially at a moment when intellectual pleasures await you.
0	Where is your brother Ernest?
0	His lips are sweet as honey, and his breath is like frankincense.” The Student looked up from the grass, and listened, but he could not understand what the Nightingale was saying to him, for he only knew the things that are written down in books.
0	_Then comes over to his wife_, _and puts his hand on her shoulder_.]
0	Yesterday evening Mrs. Arundel insisted on my going to the window, and looking at the glorious sky, as she called it.
0	Life has been hard for us both, terribly hard and difficult.
0	Legend though it may be, yet the story is none the less valuable as showing us the attitude of the Renaissance towards the antique world.
0	But he was no longer the kind light-hearted Janus whom Charles Lamb admired.
0	Oh, certainly, if you wish it.
0	[Merriman does so, and goes out with footman.
0	_One sees that he stands in immediate relation to modern life_, _makes it indeed_, _and so masters it_.
0	You remember Agatha, don’t you?
0	This unfortunate accident has upset me.
0	As Canterville Chase is seven miles from Ascot, the nearest railway station, Mr. Otis had telegraphed for a waggonette to meet them, and they started on their drive in high spirits.
0	Could we not both speak at the same time?
0	We are practising for an English Academy of Letters."
0	"You are very pressing, Basil, but I am afraid I must go.
0	I am glad to hear it.
0	He read on by its wan light till he could read no more.
0	He gives me the impression of a man who does not appreciate the beauty of our English home-life.
0	In the actual dialogue also some of the most vivid passages are those suggested by costume.
0	And as the moon has hidden herself, let us talk a little longer.
0	The wheels of his chariot raise the dust as a cloud around him.
0	"I don't know what you want.
0	The tragedy of old age is not that one is old, but that one is young.
0	Lord Illingworth remarked to me last night at dinner that the basis of every scandal is an absolutely immoral certainty.
0	What a mystery you are!
0	Like Gautier, I have always been one of those 'pour qui le monde visible existe.'
0	It is simply expression, as Harry says, that gives reality to things.
0	It always is nearly seven.
0	I see it would be both ungrateful and unkind of me to pull so long a face that when my friends came to see me they would have to make their faces still longer in order to show their sympathy; or, if I desired to entertain them, to invite them to sit down silently to bitter herbs and funeral baked meats.
0	he said, rubbing his fat freckled hands.
0	he asked huskily through the trap.
0	Dorian Gray shook his head.
0	Yes, it is right that the sins of the parents should be visited on the children.
0	That was horrible in its cruelty.
0	There are not in all the world birds so wonderful.
0	No irresponsible chatter disturbed him.
0	"Whose house is that, Constable?"
0	‘Of a truth thou shouldst have been with me.
0	And it is curious to note that from the slaves themselves they received, not merely very little assistance, but hardly any sympathy even; and when at the close of the war the slaves found themselves free, found themselves indeed so absolutely free that they were free to starve, many of them bitterly regretted the new state of things.
0	[Who has been listening attentively.]
0	Her feet are very pretty, but they are not feet of clay.
0	But I would so much like to know what was the wrong thing Mr. Allonby did.
0	You needn’t be afraid, Duchess, I never cry.
0	It is impossible to be angry with you.
0	I'll be back in no time.
0	Algernon, I forbid you to be baptized.
0	I don’t see why I shouldn’t give you the same advice.
0	Yes, but you must be serious about it.
0	The fires cannot destroy it, nor can the waters quench it.
0	There, creeps Fra Lippo Lippi with his cheeks still burning from some girl’s hot kiss.
0	Idleness is a great sin, and I certainly don’t like any of my friends to be idle or sluggish.
0	But, surely, Criticism is itself an art.
0	Creation employs all its critical faculty within its own sphere.
0	It was your own wife.
0	[Lady Bracknell sweeps out in majestic indignation.]
0	Arthur, do you think that what I did nearly eighteen years ago should be brought up against me now?
0	Come, let us go to another city, and make merry, for we have nine purses of gold.’ But the young Fisherman took the nine purses of gold, and flung them down, and trampled on them.
0	It was silly of me to come down here at all.
0	It is very much more difficult to talk about a thing than to do it.
0	It is better for the artist not to live with Princes.
0	If it were I who was to be always young, and the picture that was to grow old!
0	And when they had gone a league from the city, the young Fisherman beat his breast, and said to his Soul, ‘Why didst thou bid me slay the merchant and take his gold?
0	Men and women, with pleasure or sorrow in their faces, passed before him.
0	Having done this, he got up and went over to the window.
0	Then Life becomes fascinated with this new wonder, and asks to be admitted into the charmed circle.
0	One of the most intellectual men I ever met.
0	The thread that is to guide us across the wearisome labyrinth is in the hands of Criticism.
0	And of these Christ was one.
0	What is it to me where she came from?
0	I thought that I was going to be wonderful.
0	Machinery must work for us in coal mines, and do all sanitary services, and be the stoker of steamers, and clean the streets, and run messages on wet days, and do anything that is tedious or distressing.
0	I remember when I was at Oxford saying to one of my friends as we were strolling round Magdalen's narrow bird-haunted walks one morning in the year before I took my degree, that I wanted to eat of the fruit of all the trees in the garden of the world, and that I was going out into the world with that passion in my soul.
0	What a laugh she had!--just like a thrush singing.
0	Of the asceticism that deadens the senses, as of the vulgar profligacy that dulls them, it was to know nothing.
0	It is the custom of this place that each of the inmates of a cell shall take his morning’s turn of sweeping it out.
0	One always suffers for being generous.’” “Well?” said the Water-rat, after a long pause.
0	"But I like sentimental people."
0	The burning of the Globe Theatre—an event due, by the way, to the results of the passion for illusion that distinguished Shakespeare’s stage-management—has unfortunately robbed us of many important documents; but in the inventory, still in existence, of the costume-wardrobe of a London theatre in Shakespeare’s time, there are mentioned particular costumes for cardinals, shepherds, kings, clowns, friars, and fools; green coats for Robin Hood’s men, and a green gown for Maid Marian; a white and gold doublet for Henry the Fifth, and a robe for Longshanks; besides surplices, copes, damask gowns, gowns of cloth of gold and of cloth of silver, taffeta gowns, calico gowns, velvet coats, satin coats, frieze coats, jerkins of yellow leather and of black leather, red suits, grey suits, French Pierrot suits, a robe ‘for to goo invisibell,’ which seems inexpensive at £3, 10s., and four incomparable fardingales—all of which show a desire to give every character an appropriate dress.
0	He took the lamp from the table and crept upstairs.
0	But, see, it is dawn already.
0	Certainly the greatest harm they do is that they make badness of such extraordinary importance.
0	Let me have time to think.
0	I have a distinct remembrance of being married, but I have no recollection at all of being engaged.
0	[MABEL CHILTERN _gives a little nod_.]
0	Sprinkle it on thine enemy while he sleeps, and he will turn into a black viper, and his own mother will slay him.
0	It was, undoubtedly, the Abolitionists who set the torch alight, who began the whole thing.
0	It is just like being in church.’ “‘Lots of people act well,’ answered the Miller; ‘but very few people talk well, which shows that talking is much the more difficult thing of the two, and much the finer thing also’; and he looked sternly across the table at his little son, who felt so ashamed of himself that he hung his head down, and grew quite scarlet, and began to cry into his tea.
0	"Charge it to her like breakages," answered the Minister; "she won't faint after that;" and in a few moments Mrs. Umney certainly came to.
0	"What do you say to that, Mr.
0	You are wrong, Lady Chiltern.
0	The nineteenth century dislike of romanticism is the rage of Caliban not seeing his own face in a glass.
0	Look at the matter purely from the scientific point of view.
0	[_Pacing up and down the room_.]
0	What is it you would have in a silver charger, O sweet and fair Salomé, you who are fairer than all the daughters of Judæa?
0	Carlington went on his knees to her.
0	Well, men are different from women, mother.
0	It is good-bye, is it?
0	[Picture: Hans and the Miller] ONE morning the old Water-rat put his head out of his hole.
0	What he wanted was to see the Infanta before she went down to the pavilion, and to ask her to come away with him when he had finished his dance.
0	What God was to the pantheist, man was to Him.
0	Dorian sighed and lit a cigarette.
0	Flour is one thing, and friendship is another, and they should not be confused.
0	The centaurs have hidden themselves in the rivers, and the sirens have left the rivers, and are lying beneath the leaves of the forest.
0	That is what the highest criticism really is, the record of one’s own soul.
0	‘I told him that my desire was to see the god.
0	Shan’t stay in this house any longer.
0	People tell us that Art makes us love Nature more than we loved her before; that it reveals her secrets to us; and that after a careful study of Corot and Constable we see things in her that had escaped our observation.
0	It starts in the right manner.
0	He was rather sorry he had come, till Lady Narborough, looking at the great ormolu gilt clock that sprawled in gaudy curves on the mauve-draped mantelshelf, exclaimed:  "How horrid of Henry Wotton to be so late!
0	One day, a fatal day I sometimes think, I determined to paint a wonderful portrait of you as you actually are, not in the costume of dead ages, but in your own dress and in your own time.
0	asked his companion as he spilled into his plate a little crimson pyramid of seeded strawberries and, through a perforated, shell-shaped spoon, snowed white sugar upon them.
0	If they don't, it is all right.
0	No ignoble considerations of probability, that cowardly concession to the tedious repetitions of domestic or public life, affect it ever.
0	She is the only good woman I have ever met in my life.
0	It curled, a violet riband, through the nacre-coloured air.
0	Across the narrow streets the gay lanterns of paper flutter like large butterflies.
0	Dear me, you are smart!
0	She either explains them entirely away, or tells one everything about them except what one wants to know."
0	In the nests of Arabian birds was the aspilates, that, according to Democritus, kept the wearer from any danger by fire.
0	When the camels saw them they trembled.
0	You see, then, how it is that the æsthetic critic rejects these obvious modes of art that have but one message to deliver, and having delivered it become dumb and sterile, and seeks rather for such modes as suggest reverie and mood, and by their imaginative beauty make all interpretations true, and no interpretation final.
0	The carnations of the painting had withered, but the eyes were still wonderful in their depth and brilliancy of colour.
0	I hope so, Caroline, I am sure.
0	When I leave town now I never tell my people where I am going.
0	I see what you mean, and there is much in it.
0	It was not concerning Cæsar that the prophet spake these words, sire.
0	Perhaps it might be missed by his servant, and questions would be asked.
0	It tells me that the laws under which I am convicted are wrong and unjust laws, and the system under which I have suffered a wrong and unjust system.
0	Endless repetition, in and out of season, has spoiled for us the freshness, the naivete, the simple romantic charm of the Gospels.
0	The white Moon heard it, and she forgot the dawn, and lingered on in the sky.
0	He mistakes them for robbers, and is amazed to find that they answer him in courteous and gentle terms.
0	Women, as some witty Frenchman once put it, inspire us with the desire to do masterpieces and always prevent us from carrying them out."
0	A man of culture, charm, and distinction.
0	He was quite calm, and felt his pulse, which was not at all feverish.
0	Still, in the very fact that people will recognise me wherever I go, and know all about my life, as far as its follies go, I can discern something good for me.
0	The cheeks would become hollow or flaccid.
0	Miss Prism and Dr. Chasuble return.]
0	A severe illness, in which, to use his own words, he was ‘broken like a vessel of clay,’ prostrated him for a time.
0	Dante describes the soul of a man as coming from the hand of God 'weeping and laughing like a little child,' and Christ also saw that the soul of each one should be _a guisa di fanciulla che piangendo e ridendo pargoleggia_.
0	For the recognition of private property has really harmed Individualism, and obscured it, by confusing a man with what he possesses.
0	I wonder can you realize all that that means?
0	It was reserved for a man of science to show us the supreme example of that ‘sweet reasonableness’ of which Arnold spoke so wisely, and, alas!
0	Others crowded round the swinging doors of the coffee-house in the piazza.
0	The beat of its wings is terrible.
0	Her shallow secret nature was troubled when their eyes met.
0	He heaved a deep breath, and his nostrils quivered with pleasure.
0	I thought you were with Uncle Jack.
0	There are the dancing-girls of Samaris who dance in the manner of all kinds of birds and beasts.
0	This is, of course, quite obvious in the case of the vulgar theatre-going public of English men and women.
0	He says that it is an incestuous marriage, a marriage that will bring evils....
0	The woman I love is not free, or thinks she isn’t.
0	She was a complete failure.
0	He passed out of the room and began the ascent, Basil Hallward following close behind.
0	why have you left the body here?
0	There were beads of perspiration there.
0	Same thing as we used to call idiocy fifty years ago.
0	LADY CHILTERN _goes to the top of the staircase and looks down at them as they descend_.
0	I have had more experience.
0	Why do you say that?
0	They are always telling us that it is the paradise for women."
0	I hope you have not invested in it.
0	I remember so well how, with a strange smile on his pale, curved lips, he led me through his wonderful picture gallery, showed me his tapestries, his enamels, his jewels, his carved ivories, made me wonder at the strange loveliness of the luxury in which he lived; and then told me that luxury was nothing but a background, a painted scene in a play, and that power, power over other men, power over the world, was the one thing worth having, the one supreme pleasure worth knowing, the one joy one never tired of, and that in our century only the rich possessed it.
0	They certainly are in England.
0	Fortunately in America Journalism has carried its authority to the grossest and most brutal extreme.
0	I have pointed out that the arts which have escaped best in England are the arts in which the public have not been interested.
0	If I did, I would lose all my pleasure.
0	I would to God that I had been able to tell the truth .
0	But my wrongs are my own, and I will bear them alone.
0	I know my brother Gerald does.
0	Private information is practically the source of every large modern fortune.
0	Did you know Baron Arnheim well?
0	It has been a charming evening, and we must end it charmingly.
0	Then he drew a dagger from a belt of white leather, and stabbed the Nubian in the throat lest the slave should tell of his dishonour.
0	A feeling of pain crept over him as he thought of the desecration that was in store for the fair face on the canvas.
0	Here was an ever-present sign of the ruin men brought upon their souls.
0	A true artist takes no notice whatever of the public.
0	"I hope not," said Dorian with a sad look in his eyes.
0	Art never expresses anything but itself.
0	I assure you there is no nonsense about the Americans."
0	I have never met him.
0	It is very foolish of you.
0	The moment I met you I saw that you were quite unconscious of what you really are, of what you really might be.
0	He asked her for the key of the schoolroom.
0	If you met them in the street you would turn your head away.
0	For I have denied my mother, and driven her away, and been proud, and cruel to her.
0	How simple you think me!
0	I often wonder, however, whether the public understand that that success is entirely due to the fact that he did not accept their standard, but realised his own.
0	How sweet of you to say so!
0	Had I fallen so low in your eyes that you thought that even for a moment I could have doubted your goodness?
0	Now, I have said that the community by means of organisation of machinery will supply the useful things, and that the beautiful things will be made by the individual.
0	Our very children are taken away.
0	I have a great mind to chuck the whole thing up.
0	I will love you always, because you will always be worthy of love.
0	They have been eating muffins.
0	It should begin with science and end with a settlement.
0	He guffawed at his adversaries.
0	I think I have had too many friends."
0	But I will put another question.
0	I am not really sceptical about it, but I must admit that I feel very strongly that such work as you describe the critic producing—and creative such work must undoubtedly be admitted to be—is, of necessity, purely subjective, whereas the greatest work is objective always, objective and impersonal.
0	And the Star-Child entered the cavern, and in its farthest corner he found the piece of red gold.
0	No man comes across two ideal things.
0	By carefully chronicling the current events of contemporary life, it shows us of what very little importance such events really are.
0	The painters of the Renaissance drew Christ as a little boy playing with another boy in a palace or a garden, or lying back in his mother’s arms, smiling at her, or at a flower, or at a bright bird; or as a noble, stately figure moving nobly through the world; or as a wonderful figure rising in a sort of ecstasy from death to life.
0	One is not getting what one wants, and the other is getting it.
0	"Well, as soon as you are dry, you shall be varnished, and framed, and sent home.
0	Its very essence is destruction.
0	This strange and fascinating figure that for a few years dazzled literary London, and made so brilliant a _début_ in life and letters, is undoubtedly a most interesting study.
0	How can I save my child?
0	She makes and unmakes many worlds, and can draw the moon from heaven with a scarlet thread.
0	LADY HUNSTANTON [_in a low voice_]  I had completely forgotten that the American young lady has been in the room all the time.
0	That is much more important, dear Tuppy.
0	Robert is as incapable of doing a foolish thing as he is of doing a wrong thing.
0	Everything is subordinated to us, fashioned for our use and our pleasure.
0	He put on his slippers, took a small oblong phial out of his dressing-case, and opened the door.
0	All his poor relations, to whom he would never speak, except with a sneer, shot up into the sky like wonderful golden flowers with blossoms of fire.
0	Oh, I am pleased to see you back.
0	"Ah, you have discovered that?"
0	It is chiefly, I regret to say, through journalism that such people find expression.
0	Should any one write and claim it, let me know at once.
0	I felt I had done wrong.
0	You have done a beautiful action to-day, dear child.
0	One man owns a machine which does the work of five hundred men.
0	She was everything to me.
0	Or shall we lunch with our little duchess?
0	I have only been married once.
0	Jesus moved in a community that allowed the accumulation of private property just as ours does, and the gospel that he preached was not that in such a community it is an advantage for a man to live on scanty, unwholesome food, to wear ragged, unwholesome clothes, to sleep in horrid, unwholesome dwellings, and a disadvantage for a man to live under healthy, pleasant, and decent conditions.
0	Upon my word, Basil, I didn't know you were so vain; and I really can't see any resemblance between you, with your rugged strong face and your coal-black hair, and this young Adonis, who looks as if he was made out of ivory and rose-leaves.
0	He recalled the stainless purity of his boyish life, and it seemed horrible to him that it was here the fatal portrait was to be hidden away.
0	I have a lot to talk to you about.
0	[_Goes up stage C._] LORD WINDERMERE.
0	Experience is a question of instinct about life.
0	I fear that hardly points to any very serious state of mind at the last.
0	Give me Robert Chiltern’s letter.
0	And public scandal invariably the result.
0	She is quite devoted to you.
0	[_The prophet comes out of the cistern.
0	When she had finished her song the Student got up, and pulled a note-book and a lead-pencil out of his pocket.
0	Why shouldn't you look at it?
0	I have been writing frantic letters to Scotland Yard about it.
0	But suddenly people remarked that they scarcely spoke when they met and that Campbell seemed always to go away early from any party at which Dorian Gray was present.
0	Take me for thy bridegroom, for I love thee.’ But the Mermaid shook her head.
0	As it had revealed to him his own body, so it would reveal to him his own soul.
0	In point of fact, I found it myself, and stupidly forgot to tell the butler anything about it as I was leaving.
0	The sidewindows of the hansom were clogged with a grey-flannel mist.
0	It is the usual history of a man and a woman as it usually happens, as it always happens.
0	One hardly knew at times whether one was reading the spiritual ecstasies of some mediaeval saint or the morbid confessions of a modern sinner.
0	They are too often confused in England now, and though our modern Puritans cannot destroy a beautiful thing, yet, by means of their extraordinary prurience, they can almost taint beauty for a moment.
0	"It is your best work, Basil, the best thing you have ever done," said Lord Henry languidly.
0	But the Chamberlain looked grave, and he knelt beside the little dwarf, and put his hand upon his heart.
0	He shrank from suffering as a thing that mars and maims human life, and seems to have wandered through that terrible valley of melancholia from which so many great, perhaps greater, spirits have never emerged.
0	You have never behaved to me like a brother in all your life.
0	Two gentlemen, who were passing in the square below, stopped and looked up at the great house.
0	"Stop and dine with me."
0	Anything would be better than this dreadful state of doubt.
0	Yes; I got a telegram from the first secretary at eight o’clock to-night.
0	[_Throws himself into an armchair by the writing-table_.]
0	No one would ever look upon the horrible thing.
0	"To see him is to worship him; to know him is to trust him."
0	You are going to make it possible.
0	My dear child, the woman’s impossible.
0	don’t become quite perfect all at once.
0	"You can dine with me to-night, Dorian, can't you?"
0	So pleased to find that nothing has altered!
0	His life was well worth hers.
0	This interesting phenomenon, which always occurs after the appearance of a new edition of either of the books I have alluded to, is usually attributed to the influence of literature on the imagination.
0	The colophon is a real masterpiece and a witty criticism of the play as well.
0	Indeed, he was as one enamoured of beauty, and would mock at the weakly and ill-favoured, and make jest of them; and himself he loved, and in summer, when the winds were still, he would lie by the well in the priest’s orchard and look down at the marvel of his own face, and laugh for the pleasure he had in his fairness.
0	No, no; you shall not.
0	The difficulty Ducis felt about translating _Othello_ in consequence of the importance given to such a vulgar thing as a handkerchief, and his attempt to soften its grossness by making the Moor reiterate ‘Le bandeau!
0	It is only by its means that Humanity can become conscious of the point at which it has arrived.
0	Diversity of opinion about a work of art shows that the work is new, complex, and vital.
0	No; Gilbert, don’t play any more.
0	He felt a little humiliated at first, but afterwards was sensible enough to see that there was a great deal to be said for the invention, and, to a certain degree, it served his purpose.
0	He recognised that Life itself is in art, and has its modes of style no less than the arts that seek to express it.
0	Leaf was crying and wringing her hands.
0	But I will come down with you with pleasure.
0	It is not a matter for affection.
0	It is so much more real than life.
0	A Russian who lives happily under the present system of government in Russia must either believe that man has no soul, or that, if he has, it is not worth developing.
0	Thou wilt be passing fair as a queen, Salomé, if it please thee to ask for the half of my kingdom.
0	It is always twilight in one's cell, as it is always twilight in one's heart.
0	His lordship told me that if a lady called I was to ask her to wait in the drawing-room.
0	I am sure I don't want to."
0	The Tetrarch must not see it.
0	I can’t understand this modern mania for curates.
0	It’s running away from danger.
0	Children begin by loving their parents.
0	Only yesterday I received letters from Rome.
0	At the end of the hall hung a tattered green curtain that swayed and shook in the gusty wind which had followed him in from the street.
0	I was twenty-two at the time, and I had the double misfortune of being well-born and poor, two unforgiveable things nowadays.
0	His great wealth was a certain element of security.
0	However, let these mouthing Puritans pass; they have their comic side.
0	I only trust your name won't be mentioned in connection with it.
0	In the courtyard below, the son of Priam is buckling on his brazen cuirass.
0	My life seems to have crumbled about me.
0	[_Moves away to sofa R._] LADY WINDERMERE.
0	Dorian bowed to him shyly from the end of the table, a flush of pleasure stealing into his cheek.
0	Besides, what on earth could happen to you, Dorian?
0	A deep grave had been dug in the corner of the churchyard, just under the old yew-tree, and the service was read in the most impressive manner by the Rev.
0	I really don't see why you should keep a diary at all.
0	I remember recommending one to young Lady Lancing, and after three months her own husband did not know her.
0	“I never said I knew him,” answered the Rocket.
0	When people talk to us about others they are usually dull.
0	Not "Forgive us our sins" but "Smite us for our iniquities" should be the prayer of man to a most just God.
0	It was with an almost cruel joy--and perhaps in nearly every joy, as certainly in every pleasure, cruelty has its place--that he used to read the latter part of the book, with its really tragic, if somewhat overemphasized, account of the sorrow and despair of one who had himself lost what in others, and the world, he had most dearly valued.
0	"I hope it is not about myself.
0	Lord Henry walked across the room, and sitting down by Dorian Gray, took both his hands in his own and held them tightly.
0	He unlocked a secret press that was in the wainscoting, a press in which he kept his own curious disguises, and put them into it.
0	Into the shells of its ears he poured the harsh wine of his tale.
0	I think that in practical life there is something about success, actual success, that is a little unscrupulous, something about ambition that is unscrupulous always.
0	What did she come here for?
0	Mother, is it something you know of him?
0	He made this girl love him.
0	_She has all the fragrance and freedom of a flower_.
0	And how can it matter with what pleasure life tries to tempt one, or with what pain it seeks to maim and mar one’s soul, if in the spectacle of the lives of those who have never existed one has found the true secret of joy, and wept away one’s tears over their deaths who, like Cordelia and the daughter of Brabantio, can never die?
0	Let me say to you now that to do nothing at all is the most difficult thing in the world, the most difficult and the most intellectual.
0	The man rang the bell several times, but there was no answer.
0	Do not speak slightingly of the three-volume novel, Cecily.
0	"That is quite true, Dorian," cried Hallward.
0	When I say that I am convinced of these things I speak with too much pride.
0	I knew nothing of you but the pet name she used to call you.
0	It was an ill-omened place.
0	The Argentine Canal, in fact.
0	He has never swerved for a moment from the love he bears you.
0	Cecily, ever since I first looked upon your wonderful and incomparable beauty, I have dared to love you wildly, passionately, devotedly, hopelessly.
0	What is unfashionable is what other people wear.
0	Authority over him and his art is ridiculous.
0	No, I’ll tell him you want him.
0	"It was a very disappointing confession."
0	Did you introduce Mrs. Erlynne to Lady Jedburgh?
0	"I don't know if he will be able to come, Harry.
0	And yet, which is the worst, I wonder, to be at the mercy of a man who loves one, or the wife of a man who in one’s own house dishonours one?
0	But they put their trust in the good Saint Martin, who watches over all travellers, and retraced their steps, and went warily, and at last they reached the outskirts of the forest, and saw, far down in the valley beneath them, the lights of the village in which they dwelt.
0	We needs must love the highest when we see it!
0	You had much better let me have it, Basil.
0	"My dear old Basil, you are much more than an acquaintance."
0	And the nobles made merry, and some of them cried out to him, ‘My lord, the people wait for their king, and thou showest them a beggar,’ and others were wroth and said, ‘He brings shame upon our state, and is unworthy to be our master.’  But he answered them not a word, but passed on, and went down the bright porphyry staircase, and out through the gates of bronze, and mounted upon his horse, and rode towards the cathedral, the little page running beside him.
0	I pray thee send for him quickly, for in search of him have I wandered over the whole world.’ So the Woodcutter and his wife went out and called to the Star-Child, and said to him, ‘Go into the house, and there shalt thou find thy mother, who is waiting for thee.’ So he ran in, filled with wonder and great gladness.
0	cried Mrs. Otis; "I don't at all care for blood-stains in a sitting-room.
0	It has come to me right out of myself, so I know that it has come at the proper time.
0	If Gwendolen accepts me, I am going to kill my brother, indeed I think I'll kill him in any case.
0	I can see no possible defence at all for your deceiving a brilliant, clever, thoroughly experienced young lady like Miss Fairfax.
0	When I find that I am growing old, I shall kill myself."
0	cried the lad, taking a light from a fire-breathing silver dragon that the waiter had placed on the table.
0	And yet it will not busy itself about knowledge.
0	Harry, imagine a girl, hardly seventeen years of age, with a little, flowerlike face, a small Greek head with plaited coils of dark-brown hair, eyes that were violet wells of passion, lips that were like the petals of a rose.
0	What a bore it is the men staying so long after dinner!
0	One should reserve that to give an interest to one's old age.
0	Somebody--I won't mention his name, but you know him--came to me last year to have his portrait done.
0	Modern tapestry, with its aërial effects, its elaborate perspective, its broad expanses of waste sky, its faithful and laborious realism, has no beauty whatsoever.
0	child, where have you been?"
0	Will you do that for me?
0	Nor would he suffer any to be cruel to bird or beast, but taught love and loving-kindness and charity, and to the poor he gave bread, and to the naked he gave raiment, and there was peace and plenty in the land.
0	Destiny does not send us heralds.
0	[_Goes R._] You leave me no choice.
0	Nor will it admit any laws but its own laws; nor any authority but its own authority.
0	There was neither real sorrow in it nor real joy.
0	If you ask them their opinion on something that happened yesterday, they solemnly give you the opinions current in 1820, when people wore high stocks, believed in everything, and knew absolutely nothing.
0	you must be at home to me, Arthur.
0	There Mr. Otis inquired of the station-master if any one answering to the description of Virginia had been seen on the platform, but could get no news of her.
0	And you made a slave of his mother, who was a queen, Herodias.
0	[_Goes over and puts his hand on_ GERALD’S _shoulder_.]
0	If they know nothing of victory, they are at least spared the knowledge of defeat.
0	Otherwise the novel is not a work of art.
0	And one evening he called to her, and said: ‘Little Mermaid, little Mermaid, I love thee.
0	I am very glad I have travelled.
0	There is a luxury in self-reproach.
0	Why, it was from Melthorpe, which is only two miles from here, that Lady Belton eloped with Lord Fethersdale.
0	Christ was not merely the supreme individualist, but he was the first individualist in history.
0	Lord Windermere, I’ve something most particular to ask you.
0	He could see the reflection of Victor's face perfectly.
0	‘He should have been mine,’ she muttered, ‘I am as fair as she is.’                                 * * * * * And that evening, when the moon had risen, the young Fisherman climbed up to the top of the mountain, and stood under the branches of the hornbeam.
0	Where is she who hath given herself to the young men of Egypt, who are clothed in fine linen and purple, whose shields are of gold, whose helmets are of silver, whose bodies are mighty?
0	There is not a single colour hidden away in the chalice of a flower, or the curve of a shell, to which, by some subtle sympathy with the very soul of things, my nature does not answer.
0	In every nature there are elements of weakness, or worse than weakness.
0	They have eyes like green beryls, and their roar is louder than the roar of the cataract.” “Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow,” said the Prince, “far away across the city I see a young man in a garret.
0	The accounts I have received of Australia and the next world, are not particularly encouraging.
0	Delicate lace ruffles fell over the lean yellow hands that were so overladen with rings.
0	I am afraid you are going to annoy me again.
0	Accursed be the Fauns of the woodland, and accursed be the singers of the sea!
0	At the present moment I am eating muffins because I am unhappy.
0	[_The Servant puts out the lights_.
0	The one who is pouring out tea for us, or the one in the picture?"
0	One tastes it, and that is quite enough—more than enough, I should imagine.
0	But there is no use talking about the matter."
0	The Dwarf, however, was really quite irresistible, and even at the Spanish Court, always noted for its cultivated passion for the horrible, so fantastic a little monster had never been seen.
0	In her presence and in yours I will explain all.
0	"How long will your experiment take, Alan?"
0	"Of course I am not like him.
0	Once I saw an elephant go by.
0	But what does he see in me?
0	[Picture: Woman opening window and seeing bird] HIGH above the city, on a tall column, stood the statue of the Happy Prince.
0	How like the middle classes!
0	There is no alternative: and after the marriage you and I can go away together.
0	It is sometimes said by those who understand neither the nature of the highest Criticism nor the charm of the highest Art, that the pictures that the critic loves most to write about are those that belong to the anecdotage of painting, and that deal with scenes taken out of literature or history.
0	You keep too late hours!
0	It was of himself, and of his own future, that he had to think.
0	Indeed, my ruin came not from too great individualism of life, but from too little.
0	That is the difference between the two sexes.
0	It was a large, well-proportioned room, which had been specially built by the last Lord Kelso for the use of the little grandson whom, for his strange likeness to his mother, and also for other reasons, he had always hated and desired to keep at a distance.
0	True love suffers, and is silent.
0	I knew I had a brother!
0	_Other guests come on from ball-room_.]
0	At midnight the witches came flying through the air like bats.
0	If an owl speak to thee, make it no answer.
0	There may be division of labour, but there must be no division of mind.
0	I dare say there were.
0	The martyr in his 'shirt of flame' may be looking on the face of God, but to him who is piling the faggots or loosening the logs for the blast the whole scene is no more than the slaying of an ox is to the butcher, or the felling of a tree to the charcoal burner in the forest, or the fall of a flower to one who is mowing down the grass with a scythe.
0	The solemn minuet, too, performed by the dancing boys from the church of Nuestra Senora Del Pilar, was charming.
0	Sordello, that noble and disdainful Lombard, eyes us from afar like a couchant lion.
0	It is only in voluntary associations that man is fine.
0	The prophet, for once in his life, was right, the kings of the earth are afraid.... Let us go within.
0	You thought you had won.
0	However, as your present mood seems to be one peculiarly secular, I will return to the church at once.
0	Perhaps by to-morrow you will be my only friend.
0	Dear Lady Markby, how nice of you to come and see me!
0	They wound, but they’re better.
0	The painter considered for a few moments.
0	The old modes of creation linger, of course.
0	Nature, upon the other hand, forgetting that imitation can be made the sincerest form of insult, keeps on repeating this effect until we all become absolutely wearied of it.
0	[_C._]  London is full of women who trust their husbands.
0	Most women, for instance, nowadays, are rather mercenary.
0	The bushrangers were to attack them three times, and be defeated with immense slaughter.
0	She sang first of the birth of love in the heart of a boy and a girl.
0	My God, Harry, how I worship her!"
0	When you do become engaged to some one, I, or your father, should his health permit him, will inform you of the fact.
0	He has created in the public both taste and temperament.
0	[Produces diary of her own.]
0	It was in reality a scene not merely perfect in its picturesqueness, but absolutely dramatic also, getting rid of any necessity for tedious descriptions, and showing us, by the colour and character of Claudian’s dress, and the dress of his attendants, the whole nature and life of the man, from what school of philosophy he affected, down to what horses he backed on the turf.
0	I offered to sell Robert Chiltern a certain thing.
0	Always comes in the moment one rings for him.
0	The method of the drama is his, as well as the method of the epos.
0	Dorian's whims are laws to everybody, except himself."
0	Now I have realised that it is in me, I see quite clearly what I ought to do; in fact, must do.
0	If thou hadst looked at me thou hadst loved me.
0	It was absurd to be frightened.
0	[Gwendolen beats time with uplifted finger.]
0	To Plato, with his passion for wisdom, this was the noblest form of energy.
0	It has debarred the other part of the community from being individual by putting them on the wrong road, and encumbering them.
0	The ideals that we owe to Christ are the ideals of the man who abandons society entirely, or of the man who resists society absolutely.
0	Every night of my life I go to see her act, and every night she is more marvellous."
0	Dorian Gray loathed him more than ever.
0	_The Tempest_ is the most perfect of palinodes.
0	I am sure you were splendid.
0	[Noises heard overhead as if some one was throwing trunks about.
0	On a peach-coloured divan sat Lady Narborough, pretending to listen to the duke's description of the last Brazilian beetle that he had added to his collection.
0	The bright colours of the bazaars dazzle one’s eyes.
0	He remembered that Lord Henry had said to him once, half seriously and half in jest, "If you want to have a strange quarter of an hour, get Basil to tell you why he won't exhibit your picture.
0	I am only ten years older than you are, and I am wrinkled, and worn, and yellow.
0	Don't forget that you will have only one child now to look after, and believe me that if this man wrongs my sister, I will find out who he is, track him down, and kill him like a dog.
0	‘Nay,’ he cried, ‘but I will have nought to do with thee, nor will I journey with thee anywhere, but even as I sent thee away before, so will I send thee away now, for thou hast wrought me no good.’  And he turned his back to the moon, and with the little knife that had the handle of green viper’s skin he strove to cut from his feet that shadow of the body which is the body of the Soul.
0	What moves behind that curtain?
0	I think that at the present moment He is in the neighbourhood of Jerusalem.
0	On a tiny satinwood table stood a statuette by Clodion, and beside it lay a copy of Les Cent Nouvelles, bound for Margaret of Valois by Clovis Eve and powdered with the gilt daisies that Queen had selected for her device.
0	"What are you two talking about?"
0	But it is my husband himself who wishes to retire from public life.
0	For a little then: and if you let me, near you always.
0	It’s better for her to know, and from me.
0	The candles in the drawing-room are lit, madam, as you directed.
0	In the whole world there was nothing so red as thy mouth.
0	Mrs. Otis clasped her passionately in her arms, the Duke smothered her with violent kisses, and the twins executed a wild war-dance round the group.
0	How are you, my dear Ernest?
0	The Nihilist, that strange martyr who has no faith, who goes to the stake without enthusiasm, and dies for what he does not believe in, is a purely literary product.
0	Whenever we appear we excite great attention.
0	He poured the glowing bronze into the mould of sand, and the river of red metal cooled into noble curves and took the impress of the body of a god.
0	The reason I will not exhibit this picture is that I am afraid that I have shown in it the secret of my own soul."
0	All the results of the mistakes of governments are quite admirable.
0	But to be out of it simply a tragedy.
0	_He smiles_, _and does so_.]
0	Sir Robert is still at the Foreign Office, my lord.
0	They will hardly venture to come after us there.
0	Basket chairs, and a table covered with books, are set under a large yew-tree.
0	She trembled all over and shook like a white narcissus.
0	I am sure you agree with me in that.
0	don't remind me of that," cried Dorian Gray.
0	Let her be sent for.
0	The Greek dress was the loveliest dress the world has ever seen, and the English dress of the last century one of the most monstrous; yet we cannot costume a play by Sheridan as we would costume a play by Sophokles.
0	By its means he can exhibit the object from each point of view, and show it to us in the round, as a sculptor shows us things, gaining in this manner all the richness and reality of effect that comes from those side issues that are suddenly suggested by the central idea in its progress, and really illumine the idea more completely, or from those felicitous after-thoughts that give a fuller completeness to the central scheme, and yet convey something of the delicate charm of chance.
0	It was he who first said so.
0	[_Advancing towards her with a low bow_.]
0	To the great painter, there is only one manner of painting—that which he himself employs.
0	But there is no necessity to separate the monarch from the mob; all authority is equally bad.
0	Keep your horrible secrets to yourself.
0	Hand that to Miss Fairfax.
0	Yes, but men often propose for practice.
0	Accordingly, he determined to have vengeance, and remained till daylight in an attitude of deep thought.
0	And I cannot have her sacrificed!
0	The only pity was one had to pay so often for a single fault.
0	Think of the position I am in.
0	It was a poisonous book.
0	If you have given her any promise you must take it back, that is all!
0	The next morning, when the Otis family met at breakfast, they discussed the ghost at some length.
0	A bishop keeps on saying at the age of eighty what he was told to say when he was a boy of eighteen, and as a natural consequence he always looks absolutely delightful.
0	A woman of no importance.
0	I thought you dandies never got up till two, and were not visible till five."
0	Lord Caversham has been waiting some time in the library for Sir Robert.
0	There is no mystery in any of them.
0	What do you mean by a foolish letter?
0	LADY STUTFIELD              _Miss Madge Girdlestone_.
0	A red pencil-mark on the fifth page caught his eye.
0	muttered Dorian Gray, starting up from the sofa and turning almost white from fear.
0	Do take the screen away, Dorian.
0	I know myself that, when I am coming back from the Drawing Room, I always feel as if I hadn’t a shred on me, except a small shred of decent reputation, just enough to prevent the lower classes making painful observations through the windows of the carriage.
0	It is said, of course, that she ran away twice before she was married.
0	The Puritan dislike of colour, adornment and grace in apparel was part of the great revolt of the middle classes against Beauty in the seventeenth century.
0	But you told me yesterday that you had received the report from the Commission, and that it entirely condemned the whole thing.
0	LORD GORING [_Turning to her_.]
0	Come, don't work yourself into this fever.
0	Why, you gave yourself to me like a flower, to do anything I liked with.
0	Mr. Worthing, is Miss Cardew at all connected with any of the larger railway stations in London?
0	* * * * * Now early on the next morning, before the sun was the span of a man’s hand above the hill, the young Fisherman went to the house of the Priest and knocked three times at the door.
0	Hallward turned again to the portrait and gazed at it.
0	You have quite neglected me lately.
0	This silly boy doesn't really want it, and I really do."
0	There has not been a scandal in the neighbourhood since the time of Queen Elizabeth, and consequently they all fall asleep after dinner.
0	Or had his choice already been made?
0	Yes: surely she would come if he could only find her!
0	No, it is some hideous mistake.
0	She is like a mad woman, is she not?
0	The ducal hat of Charles the Rash, the last Duke of Burgundy of his race, was hung with pear-shaped pearls and studded with sapphires.
0	It is always with the best intentions that the worst work is done.
0	Why, this morning before breakfast was half over, he stood up on the hearthrug, put his hands in his pockets, and appealed to the country at the top of his voice.
0	He thought for a moment.
0	Yes, father, but I only admit to thirty-two—thirty-one and a half when I have a really good buttonhole.
0	That shows your admirable good taste.
0	So she tossed her pretty head, and taking Don Pedro by the hand, she walked slowly down the steps towards a long pavilion of purple silk that had been erected at the end of the garden, the other children following in strict order of precedence, those who had the longest names going first.
0	At the last moment, however, his terror of the twins prevented his leaving his room, and the little Duke slept in peace under the great feathered canopy in the Royal Bedchamber, and dreamed of Virginia.
0	But Nature is so uncomfortable.
0	I will not go within till she hath danced.
0	They are always telling us it is the Paradise of women.
0	It was put down entirely through the grossly illegal conduct of certain agitators in Boston and elsewhere, who were not slaves themselves, nor owners of slaves, nor had anything to do with the question really.
0	Why don’t you call me Laura?
0	Christ, through some divine instinct in him, seems to have always loved the sinner as being the nearest possible approach to the perfection of man.
0	I wonder, did Chopin write it at Majorca, with the sea weeping round the villa and the salt spray dashing against the panes?
0	We are only going to look at the stars, Lady Hunstanton.
0	Then he sighed and went out.
0	Without the dreadful disadvantage of having a Penelope waiting at home for him.
0	Its gates are guarded by Ignorance, and to pass them we have to surrender all that in our nature is most divine.
0	Oh, Mr. Ghost--I mean Sir Simon, are you hungry?
0	It took him three-quarters of an hour to consume everything.
0	We must not be afraid of such a phrase.
0	"Remember what I asked you, when we were in the garden this morning."
0	Is such a mode of life unpractical?
0	For what is a practical scheme?
0	When they reached the Achilles Statue, she turned round.
0	He discovered wonderful stories, also, about jewels.
0	I believe the aristocracy are suffering very much from it just at present.
0	Opposite was the Duchess of Harley, a lady of admirable good-nature and good temper, much liked by every one who knew her, and of those ample architectural proportions that in women who are not duchesses are described by contemporary historians as stoutness.
0	Besides, there is this to be said.
0	He has already copied your neckties, and has begged me to introduce him to you.
0	It is a tribute, but a tribute of no importance.
0	They actually succeed in spelling his name right in the newspapers.
0	Crudely as it had been told to him, it had yet stirred him by its suggestion of a strange, almost modern romance.
0	A very good thing too.
0	And, Parker, be sure you pronounce the names of the guests very distinctly to-night.
0	There cometh a bitter wind into the house, and I am cold.’ ‘Into a house where a heart is hard cometh there not always a bitter wind?’ he asked.
0	"Ten minutes past two, sir," answered the man, looking at the clock and blinking.
0	Every moment was of vital importance.
0	When one of his followers asked leave to go and bury his father, ‘Let the dead bury the dead,’ was his terrible answer.
0	I don’t know how I can repay you.
0	Ah, all that I have noticed is that they are horribly tedious when they are good husbands, and abominably conceited when they are not.
0	But he did not preoccupy them much.
0	Pray don't talk to me about the weather, Mr. Worthing.
0	I am tired of living abroad.
0	We were at school together.
0	In their heavy inaccessibility to ideas, their dull respectability, their tedious orthodoxy, their worship of vulgar success, their entire preoccupation with the gross materialistic side of life, and their ridiculous estimate of themselves and their importance, the Jews of Jerusalem in Christ's day were the exact counterpart of the British Philistine of our own.
0	“Why, indeed?” whispered a Daisy to his neighbour, in a soft, low voice.
0	Her father was a very wealthy millionaire or philanthropist, or both, I believe, who entertained my son quite hospitably, when he visited Boston.
0	That is the one use of the idle classes of a country.
0	It is quite true about modernity.
0	I have not been to Eton or Oxford like other chaps.
0	It is an admirable place for it.
0	Some love might come across his life, and purify him, and shield him from those sins that seemed to be already stirring in spirit and in flesh--those curious unpictured sins whose very mystery lent them their subtlety and their charm.
0	On reaching the library, he found that it was just after five o'clock and that the tea had been already brought up.
0	But whether it be faith or agnosticism, it must be nothing external to me.
0	The women fled screaming to the waggons, and hid themselves behind the felt curtains.
0	now I have tempted thee with evil, and I have tempted thee with good, and thy love is stronger than I am.
0	They often say in their Gnomic aphorisms, 'Even the Gods cannot alter the past.'
0	You must admit in fairness that I have spared you that.
0	So sorry, Lady Windermere, to give you so much trouble.
0	Yes: I am a dreamer.
0	A great owl, with yellow sulphurous eyes, called to him by his name, but he made it no answer.
0	It was not a mere fancy of his own.
0	It certainly has changed its colour.
0	He saw them at night, and they troubled his imagination in the day.
0	When I saw that, I knew who the woman was, and wherefore she had smiled at me.
0	And as for trusting us, it is tragic how much they trust us.
0	I will pay thee royally.
0	Good-bye, Gerald, give my fondest love to your mother.
0	He looked at Dorian Gray in absolute amazement.
0	I make it a rule never to accept Tommy.
0	The God of this century is wealth.
0	It must be perfectly easy in half an hour to say whether a book is worth anything or worth nothing.
0	And Avarice fled shrieking through the forest, and Death leaped upon his red horse and galloped away, and his galloping was faster than the wind.
0	Oh, anything is better than being sacrificed!
0	She is going to dance for me.
0	But where did you deposit the hand-bag?
0	For her the slim narcissus stored the cool rain; and for her the anemones forgot the Sicilian winds that wooed them.
0	Then right across the dancers came the sound of the galloping of a horse, but no horse was to be seen, and he felt afraid.
0	Humility in the artist is his frank acceptance of all experiences, just as love in the artist is simply the sense of beauty that reveals to the world its body and its soul.
0	So he flew round and round her, touching the water with his wings, and making silver ripples.
0	But she said she’d like to come with me.
0	What a good friend you are to him—to us!
0	From a curiously carven chest that his mother Thetis had brought to his ship-side, the Lord of the Myrmidons takes out that mystic chalice that the lip of man had never touched, and cleanses it with brimstone, and with fresh water cools it, and, having washed his hands, fills with black wine its burnished hollow, and spills the thick grape-blood upon the ground in honour of Him whom at Dodona barefooted prophets worshipped, and prays to Him, and knows not that he prays in vain, and that by the hands of two knights from Troy, Panthous’ son, Euphorbus, whose love-locks were looped with gold, and the Priamid, the lion-hearted, Patroklus, the comrade of comrades, must meet his doom.
0	Arthur, what does this mean?
0	At least that is the only way I can account for the terribly haggard look of most of your pretty women in London!
0	It is so tedious a subject that one would have to talk seriously about it.
0	That our lives may drift apart.
0	The men were a poor lot, but, egad!
0	But I really loved her.
0	I have no other reason.
0	His extraordinary absences became notorious, and, when he used to reappear again in society, men would whisper to each other in corners, or pass him with a sneer, or look at him with cold searching eyes, as though they were determined to discover his secret.
0	It was a novel without a plot and with only one character, being, indeed, simply a psychological study of a certain young Parisian who spent his life trying to realize in the nineteenth century all the passions and modes of thought that belonged to every century except his own, and to sum up, as it were, in himself the various moods through which the world-spirit had ever passed, loving for their mere artificiality those renunciations that men have unwisely called virtue, as much as those natural rebellions that wise men still call sin.
0	You cannot love me at all, unless you love her also.
0	Not remorse in the ordinary, rather silly sense of the word.
0	Pleasure is Nature's test, her sign of approval.
0	What gentleman would associate with him?"
0	"Because, without intending it, I have put into it some expression of all this curious artistic idolatry, of which, of course, I have never cared to speak to him.
0	The birds were flying about and twittering with delight, and the flowers were looking up through the green grass and laughing.
0	My dear Miss Worsley, the only part of your little speech, if I may so term it, with which I thoroughly agreed, was the part about my brother.
0	All other men are hateful to me.
0	The streets looked as if they were made of silver, they were so bright and glistening; long icicles like crystal daggers hung down from the eaves of the houses, everybody went about in furs, and the little boys wore scarlet caps and skated on the ice.
0	The secret of life is to appreciate the pleasure of being terribly, terribly deceived.
0	My companions are building a nest in the Temple of Baalbec, and the pink and white doves are watching them, and cooing to each other.
0	Surely thou shouldst have been with me.
0	There was nothing on the trencher but a pile of dust.
0	you admit you have a hold!
0	He poisoned him in 1829 to gain possession of Linden House, a place to which he had always been very much attached.
0	He is the last man who saw God.
0	The English aristocracy supply us with our curiosities, Lady Caroline.
0	ONCE upon a time two poor Woodcutters were making their way home through a great pine-forest.
0	The passages in Shakespeare—and they are many—where the language is uncouth, vulgar, exaggerated, fantastic, obscene even, are entirely due to Life calling for an echo of her own voice, and rejecting the intervention of beautiful style, through which alone should life be suffered to find expression.
0	That might produce some effect on the public.
0	You are not going, Robert?
0	Most of them sell the wine of Schiraz, which is as sweet as honey.
0	She regarded me merely as a person in a play.
0	The sweep and dash of the brush on the canvas made the only sound that broke the stillness, except when, now and then, Hallward stepped back to look at his work from a distance.
0	Injustice has parcelled out the world, nor is there equal division of aught save of sorrow.’ But as they were bewailing their misery to each other this strange thing happened.
0	The terror of society, which is the basis of morals, the terror of God, which is the secret of religion--these are the two things that govern us.
0	It is only an auctioneer who can equally and impartially admire all schools of Art.
0	To give an accurate description of what has never occurred is not merely the proper occupation of the historian, but the inalienable privilege of any man of parts and culture.
0	[Algernon retires to the fireplace.]
0	De Quincey says that Mrs. Wainewright was not really privy to the murder.
0	Her garments were torn and ragged, and her feet were bleeding from the rough road on which she had travelled, and she was in very evil plight.
0	At other times it entirely anticipates its age, and produces in one century work that it takes another century to understand, to appreciate and to enjoy.
0	Just give it back to me, Algy.
0	"It is because I am going to be good," he answered, smiling.
0	If you don’t believe me, you can ask Lady Markby.
0	All the spring may be hidden in the single bud, and the low ground nest of the lark may hold the joy that is to herald the feet of many rose-red dawns.
0	I can pound a toad in a mortar, and make broth of it, and stir the broth with a dead man’s hand.
0	He will be always showing us the work of art in some new relation to our age.
0	That something hidden away in my nature, like a treasure in a field, is Humility.
0	It must be now or not at all.
0	There were moments, indeed, at night, when, lying sleepless in his own delicately scented chamber, or in the sordid room of the little ill-famed tavern near the docks which, under an assumed name and in disguise, it was his habit to frequent, he would think of the ruin he had brought upon his soul with a pity that was all the more poignant because it was purely selfish.
0	MRS. ERLYNNE                _Miss Marion Terry_.
0	No one has ever understood me as you have."
0	Les domes, sur l'azur des ondes        Suivant la phrase au pur contour,      S'enflent comme des gorges rondes        Que souleve un soupir d'amour.
0	You might just as well have asked me the use of thought.
0	I think I know whom you mean.
0	He was something of a politician, and had always taken a prominent part in the local elections, so he knew the proper Parliamentary expressions to use.
0	IN many of the somewhat violent attacks that have recently been made on that splendour of mounting which now characterises our Shakespearian revivals in England, it seems to have been tacitly assumed by the critics that Shakespeare himself was more or less indifferent to the costumes of his actors, and that, could he see Mrs. Langtry’s production of _Antony and Cleopatra_, he would probably say that the play, and the play only, is the thing, and that everything else is leather and prunella.
0	And on the morrow the Magician came to him, and said, ‘If to-day thou bringest me not the piece of yellow gold, I will surely keep thee as my slave, and give thee three hundred stripes.’ So the Star-Child went to the wood, and all day long he searched for the piece of yellow gold, but nowhere could he find it.
0	So they played on very gently and just touching the cords of the zithers with their long pointed nails, and their heads began to nod as though they were falling asleep.
0	Put down my cloak, sir.
0	But in his present state, Sir John is really a great trial.
0	[Exit Jack in great excitement.]
0	Whatever influence I ever had over mamma, I lost at the age of three.
0	I will kiss thy mouth, Jokanaan.
0	They have become the mere mannerism of a clique, and the exaggerated realism of their method gives dull people bronchitis.
0	By the way, Gerald, you should learn how to tie your tie better.
0	But I don't like scenes, except on the stage.
0	He kept his hands in the pockets of his Astrakhan coat, and seemed not to have noticed the gesture with which he had been greeted.
0	He is your own father!
0	In fact, in every age the social conditions are so exemplified in costume, that to produce a sixteenth-century play in fourteenth-century attire, or _vice versa_, would make the performance seem unreal because untrue.
0	An ecstasy of happiness dominated her.
0	The dryads peer from the thicket as she passes by, and the brown fauns smile strangely at her when she comes near them.
0	You had better go and put on your overshoes at once.
0	Now, whatever music sounds like I am glad to say that it does not sound in the smallest degree like German.
0	[_Enter_ LORD CAVERSHAM, _an old gentleman of seventy_, _wearing the riband and star of the Garter_.
0	"I never thought you would."
0	Dorian did not know what to say or do.
0	The wordy silence troubled her.
0	"He got the whole charge of shot in his chest.
0	Think of the hypocrite with his greasy smile penning his leading article, and arranging the foulness of the public placard.
0	I know how difficult it is to get her to go anywhere.
0	You mean you cannot help doing it.
0	But it has my name on it.
0	Yet it is really a very few years since both philosophy and science were subjected to brutal popular control, to authority in fact—the authority of either the general ignorance of the community, or the terror and greed for power of an ecclesiastical or governmental class.
0	This Bunburying, as you call it, has not been a great success for you.
0	And as for the Sea-folk, they are lost, and they who would traffic with them are lost also.
0	"Perdition seize the naughty fowl," he muttered, "I have seen the day when, with my stout spear, I would have run him through the gorge, and made him crow for me an 'twere in death!"
0	Oh, I should fancy Mrs. Cheveley is one of those very modern women of our time who find a new scandal as becoming as a new bonnet, and air them both in the Park every afternoon at five-thirty.
0	I know nothing, Lady Bracknell.
0	“Give me a red rose,” she cried, “and I will sing you my sweetest song.” But the Tree shook its head.
0	Life had suddenly become too hideous a burden for him to bear.
0	Between men and women there is no friendship possible.
0	Paralysed with terror, he did not know what to do.
0	It is a great bore.
0	But the soldiers who stood on guard dropped their halberts across the entrance, and said roughly to him, ‘What is thy business in the city?’ ‘I am seeking for my mother,’ he answered, ‘and I pray ye to suffer me to pass, for it may be that she is in this city.’ But they mocked at him, and one of them wagged a black beard, and set down his shield and cried, ‘Of a truth, thy mother will not be merry when she sees thee, for thou art more ill-favoured than the toad of the marsh, or the adder that crawls in the fen.
0	ahem!” said the Rocket angrily.
0	It should have been told to him before, if it was as he suspected.
0	Yes; much better than when I saw it last.
0	[_The page gives her the fan._] You have a dreamer's look; you must not dream.
0	The orphreys were divided into panels representing scenes from the life of the Virgin, and the coronation of the Virgin was figured in coloured silks upon the hood.
0	I wouldn’t have you part with one of them.
0	It is to be noted also that Individualism does not come to man with any sickly cant about duty, which merely means doing what other people want because they want it; or any hideous cant about self-sacrifice, which is merely a survival of savage mutilation.
0	That must be our test, and perhaps then we shall be able to appreciate some of the subtleties of Greek art-criticism.
0	Surely you know me well enough for that?
0	You are not going to lend your support to this Argentine speculation?
0	I am sorry he is dead.
0	They should be seated at the board, and are beginning to know it.
0	Herbert Beerbohm Tree_            _Managers_: _Mr.
0	His own neighbour was Mrs. Vandeleur, one of his aunt's oldest friends, a perfect saint amongst women, but so dreadfully dowdy that she reminded one of a badly bound hymn-book.
0	It was a small party, got up rather in a hurry by Lady Narborough, who was a very clever woman with what Lord Henry used to describe as the remains of really remarkable ugliness.
0	There is no mode of action, no form of emotion, that we do not share with the lower animals.
0	He winced and, taking up from the table an oval glass framed in ivory Cupids, one of Lord Henry's many presents to him, glanced hurriedly into its polished depths.
0	What an appalling philosophy that sounds!
0	Misery wakes us in the morning, and Shame sits with us at night.
0	It is when we are wounded by our own hands, or by the hands of others, that love should come to cure us—else what use is love at all?
0	"Thanks, I won't have anything more," said the painter, taking his cap and coat off and throwing them on the bag that he had placed in the corner.
0	Archæology to them was not a mere science for the antiquarian; it was a means by which they could touch the dry dust of antiquity into the very breath and beauty of life, and fill with the new wine of romanticism forms that else had been old and outworn.
0	There was a rustle of chirruping sparrows in the green lacquer leaves of the ivy, and the blue cloud-shadows chased themselves across the grass like swallows.
0	Over the empty plain wander shepherd and goatherd with their flocks, and where, on the wine-surfaced, oily sea, οινοψ πόντος, as Homer calls it, copper-prowed and streaked with vermilion, the great galleys of the Danaoi came in their gleaming crescent, the lonely tunny-fisher sits in his little boat and watches the bobbing corks of his net.
0	Now I am happy, I am passing happy.
0	Have you told Gwendolen yet that you have an excessively pretty ward who is only just eighteen?
0	We call ours a utilitarian age, and we do not know the uses of any single thing.
0	It is upon lines of intellect that a man’s life progresses.
0	Life would be very dull without them.
0	“‘Real friends should have everything in common,’ the Miller used to say, and little Hans nodded and smiled, and felt very proud of having a friend with such noble ideas.
0	It is the last resource of those who know not how to dream.
0	_Mother and son look at each other_.]
0	"I thought I would do myself the honour of coming round in person.
0	I felt that this grey monstrous London of ours, with its myriads of people, its sordid sinners, and its splendid sins, as you once phrased it, must have something in store for me.
0	You are to lunch there on Friday!
0	You really should take more care of yourself.
0	[SIR JOHN _gets up and goes off_.]
0	"Monsieur has well slept this morning," he said, smiling.
0	Relations are simply a tedious pack of people, who haven't got the remotest knowledge of how to live, nor the smallest instinct about when to die.
0	Taking sides is the beginning of sincerity, and earnestness follows shortly afterwards, and the human being becomes a bore.
0	[_Deeply overcome by emotion_, _embraces her_.]
0	What is it to me what devil's work you are up to?"
0	Optimism begins in a broad grin, and Pessimism ends with blue spectacles.
0	In fact, in art there is no specialism, and a really artistic production should bear the impress of one master, and one master only, who not merely should design and arrange everything, but should have complete control over the way in which each dress is to be worn.
0	Gwendolen, wait here for me.
0	We have all seen in our own day in England how a certain curious and fascinating type of beauty, invented and emphasised by two imaginative painters, has so influenced Life that whenever one goes to a private view or to an artistic salon one sees, here the mystic eyes of Rossetti’s dream, the long ivory throat, the strange square-cut jaw, the loosened shadowy hair that he so ardently loved, there the sweet maidenhood of ‘The Golden Stair,’ the blossom-like mouth and weary loveliness of the ‘Laus Amoris,’ the passion-pale face of Andromeda, the thin hands and lithe beauty of the Vivian in ‘Merlin’s Dream.’  And it has always been so.
0	Every thing to be true must become a religion.
0	Who do you think is in the dining-room?
0	It is perfectly absurd your saying that your name isn't Ernest.
0	Do you think that there should be the same laws for men as there are for women?
0	For the secret of life is suffering.
0	It is close on twelve.
0	We have to resume it where we had left off, and there steals over us a terrible sense of the necessity for the continuance of energy in the same wearisome round of stereotyped habits, or a wild longing, it may be, that our eyelids might open some morning upon a world that had been refashioned anew in the darkness for our pleasure, a world in which things would have fresh shapes and colours, and be changed, or have other secrets, a world in which the past would have little or no place, or survive, at any rate, in no conscious form of obligation or regret, the remembrance even of joy having its bitterness and the memories of pleasure their pain.
0	I must go at once.
0	And with him went the monks and the musicians, and the candle-bearers, and the swingers of censers, and a great company.
0	He had dreamed of her as a great artist, had given his love to her because he had thought her great.
0	We have had such a pleasant chat about music.
0	Dear Lord Darlington, how thoroughly depraved you are!
0	There is some one I must see before I leave town—some one who has been kind to me.
0	It is my only reason for existing."
0	It were an evil omen.
0	Of the value of beautiful costume in creating an artistic temperament in the audience, and producing that joy in beauty for beauty’s sake without which the great masterpieces of art can never be understood, I will not here speak; though it is worth while to notice how Shakespeare appreciated that side of the question in the production of his tragedies, acting them always by artificial light, and in a theatre hung with black; but what I have tried to point out is that archæology is not a pedantic method, but a method of artistic illusion, and that costume is a means of displaying character without description, and of producing dramatic situations and dramatic effects.
0	That is the most unbecoming thing there is.
0	It is said to be well timbered.
0	It is a sort of open secret that Baron Arnheim left her the greater portion of his immense fortune.
0	She was three feet and a half in diameter, and made of the very best gunpowder.
0	"It is nothing to me.
0	I will not have her look at me.
0	It is the chair I use myself, when I have visitors.
0	Then he stretched out his hand, took a piece of paper, and wrote something on it.
0	By slow degrees there is to be engendered in him such a temperament as will lead him naturally and simply to choose the good in preference to the bad, and, rejecting what is vulgar and discordant, to follow by fine instinctive taste all that possesses grace and charm and loveliness.
0	It is the only way I get to know of them.
0	Georges Petit is going to collect all my best pictures for a special exhibition in the Rue de Seze, which will open the first week in October.
0	Come out on the terrace.
0	A quarter of an hour afterwards, amidst an extraordinary turmoil of applause, Sibyl Vane stepped on to the stage.
0	Our Luciens de Rubempré, our Rastignacs, and De Marsays made their first appearance on the stage of the _Comédie Humaine_.
0	The birds sat on the trees and sang so sweetly that the children used to stop their games in order to listen to them.
0	If you think so, do not say so.
0	He is far too high-principled for that!
0	Receive thy child now.’ But the beggar-woman answered him not a word.
0	He had often tried it, and would try it again now.
0	He must be quite respectable.
0	Ours is the only Church where the sceptic stands at the altar, and where St. Thomas is regarded as the ideal apostle.
0	And it is only fair to tell you frankly that I am fearfully extravagant.
0	As soon as the man entered, Dorian pulled his chequebook out of a drawer and spread it out before him.
0	One thing, however, he felt that it had done for him.
0	It has often seemed to me that Browning felt something of this.
0	And Mrs. Arbuthnot, pray let me tell you, that I think you have acted very, very wisely.
0	that must be Aunt Augusta.
0	Your carriage is here, Mrs. Cheveley!
0	On an occasion of this kind it becomes more than a moral duty to speak one's mind.
0	Yes: the public is wonderfully tolerant.
0	Wherefore dost thou not look at me?
0	He opened it and found it was from Dorian Gray.
0	But then you are always nice.
0	His mother was waiting for him below.
0	Most _Hamlets_ I have seen were placed far too early.
0	"My son, you distress me very much.
0	He forgets that when Art surrenders her imaginative medium she surrenders everything.
0	As soon as he had left, he rushed to the screen and drew it back.
0	I tell you simply this—Mrs.
0	It is a formal recognition of the importance of treating life from a definite and reasoned standpoint.
0	You have everything in the world that a man can want.
0	a common thief were better.
0	And you thought I spent too much of my time in going to Church, and in Church duties.
0	Well, you couldn’t come to a more charming place than this, Miss Worsley, though the house is excessively damp, quite unpardonably damp, and dear Lady Hunstanton is sometimes a little lax about the people she asks down here.
0	Besides, I always deal with Dartmoor's tradesmen, and consequently they never bother me.
0	“What a strange thing!” said the overseer of the workmen at the foundry.
0	They are the pest of the age, nothing more and nothing less.
0	I always like to know everything about my new friends, and nothing about my old ones."
0	The new-born child shall put his hand upon the dragon's lair, he shall lead the lions by their manes.
0	I think the stupid people talk a great deal.
0	It will, in fact, give Life its proper basis and its proper environment.
0	"How long ago is it since your sister died?
0	I will communicate with you daily.
0	I felt that it is from ourselves alone that help can come.
0	"They are the last refuge of the complex.
0	This only is the Mirror of Wisdom.
0	Time to educate yourself, I suppose.
0	Our presence taints the pleasures of others.
0	As the door closed behind them, the painter flung himself down on a sofa, and a look of pain came into his face.
0	To the artist, expression is the only mode under which he can conceive life at all.
0	Really, the things that go on in front of that work of art are quite appalling.
0	"The button from your foil," he answered.
0	Must we go, then, to Art for everything?
0	Wilde used to say that "Salomé" was a mirror in which everyone could see himself.
0	You, Mr. Gray, you yourself, with your rose-red youth and your rose-white boyhood, you have had passions that have made you afraid, thoughts that have filled you with terror, day-dreams and sleeping dreams whose mere memory might stain your cheek with shame--" "Stop!"
0	As for a spoiled life, no life is spoiled but one whose growth is arrested.
0	Start with the worship of form, and there is no secret in art that will not be revealed to you, and remember that in criticism, as in creation, temperament is everything, and that it is, not by the time of their production, but by the temperaments to which they appeal, that the schools of art should be historically grouped.
0	I should like to have a few minutes’ conversation with her.
0	The mimic spectacle of life that Tragedy affords cleanses the bosom of much ‘perilous stuff,’ and by presenting high and worthy objects for the exercise of the emotions purifies and spiritualises the man; nay, not merely does it spiritualise him, but it initiates him also into noble feelings of which he might else have known nothing, the word κάθαρσις having, it has sometimes seemed to me, a definite allusion to the rite of initiation, if indeed that be not, as I am occasionally tempted to fancy, its true and only meaning here.
0	A spotted handkerchief had been placed over the face.
0	Just when I have come in!
0	Uncle Jack would be very much annoyed if he knew you were staying on till next week, at the same hour.
0	Don’t you think you might leave a card?
0	He felt that Dorian Gray would never again be to him all that he had been in the past.
0	Lips that Shakespeare taught to speak have whispered their secret in my ear.
0	But overtake her he could not, and those who dwelt by the way did ever deny that they had seen her, or any like to her, and they made sport of his sorrow.
0	That is the second time you have made that observation.
0	Yes, Lady Windermere—  Mrs. Erlynne has done me the honour of accepting my hand.
0	MRS. ARBUTHNOT _is left alone_.
0	The man turned round and went rapidly in the direction of the house.
0	That would be real disgrace: the first to touch you.
0	At the moment when they come across him in the play he is staggering under the weight of a burden intolerable to one of his temperament.
0	Besides, women were better suited to bear sorrow than men.
0	Goethe says, somewhere—     In der Beschränkung zeigt Fsich erst der Meister, “It is in working within limits that the master reveals himself,” and the limitation, the very condition of any art is style.
0	It     would have lost nearly all its charms in losing that perplexing veil     of indistinctness which affords such ample range wherein the doubting     imagination may speculate.
0	On arriving at the spot, however, he found that the gipsies had gone, and it was evident that their departure had been rather sudden, as the fire was still burning, and some plates were lying on the grass.
0	[SIR JOHN _shrugs his shoulders_.]
0	And I have caught the effect I wanted--the half-parted lips and the bright look in the eyes.
0	For a town or country labourer to practise thrift would be absolutely immoral.
0	It was a tower of silver decked with shields of ivory.
0	Why should I not love her?
0	But tell me, what did she say about Mr. Dorian Gray?"
0	We in our madness have separated the two, and have invented a realism that is vulgar, an ideality that is void.
0	How securely one thinks one lives—out of reach of temptation, sin, folly.
0	But if you asked him he would stay, would he not?
0	I had to pass on.
0	Death fought with me for you.
0	He in a Harford, every inch of him.
0	Sooner or later in political life one has to compromise.
0	When the white doves flew past, they struck the bells with their wings and made them tinkle.
0	It seems to me that it is we who are always trying to escape from them.
0	I suppose you think him bad, because he doesn’t believe the same things as you do.
0	What would you say they were?
0	She seemed to them to be absolutely incompetent.
0	Things last either too long, or not long enough.
0	[_Goes towards door with a bow to_ LORD AUGUSTUS.
0	[Presenting her cheek to be kissed.]
0	There was a look of contempt in the steady searching gaze that he turned on Dorian.
0	You know about chemistry and things of that kind.
0	She was nothing to him now.
0	The sky was bright, and there was a genial warmth in the air.
0	One may be under certain obligations to people that one must pay.
0	[Catches sight of Lady Bracknell, who has fixed her with a stony glare.
0	I said in _Dorian Gray_ that the great sins of the world take place in the brain: but it is in the brain that everything takes place.
0	If I lost my ideals, I should lose everything.
0	Having reduced the reckless and foolhardy youth to a condition of abject terror, he was then to proceed to the room occupied by the United States Minister and his wife, and there to place a clammy hand on Mrs. Otis's forehead, while he hissed into her trembling husband's ear the awful secrets of the charnel-house.
0	He spoke rapidly and in an authoritative manner.
0	I do not know it.
0	You have no idea what I suffered."
0	Pledge me your word, Lady Windermere, that you will never tell him.
0	Do you think I would allow my son— MRS. ARBUTHNOT.
0	It is too late now, I suppose?
0	It is the highest Criticism, for it criticises not merely the individual work of art, but Beauty itself, and fills with wonder a form which the artist may have left void, or not understood, or understood incompletely.
0	The tulip-beds across the road flamed like throbbing rings of fire.
0	Yet she was curiously listless.
0	"Wait for an answer," he said, handing it to him, "and show the men in here."
0	Some of the characters are stout, some lean, some straight, some hunchbacked, some fair, some dark, and some are to blacken their faces.
0	They rose up and sauntered down the walk together.
0	How clever you are, Mr. Hopper.
0	Then I feel, Harry, that I have given away my whole soul to some one who treats it as if it were a flower to put in his coat, a bit of decoration to charm his vanity, an ornament for a summer's day."
0	In the flat oval shields there were carbuncles, both wine-coloured and coloured like grass.
0	Now, what are you talking about, Lord Illingworth?
0	I told you it was a question of rational compromise.
0	The bad Popes loved Beauty, almost as passionately, nay, with as much passion as the good Popes hated Thought.
0	I am so much interested in his political career.
0	All the conditions she makes are that we live entirely out of England.
0	When private property is abolished there will be no necessity for crime, no demand for it; it will cease to exist.
0	Thanks, mamma, I'm quite comfortable where I am.
0	Hallward amused himself with watching the faces in the pit.
0	The external things of life seem to me now of no importance at all.
0	His friends tried to interfere with her, and said that it was an extravagance, and that the money that the perfume cost should have been expended on charitable relief of people in want, or something of that kind.
0	Do they say that here?
0	[_Goes to table up L._] DUCHESS OF BERWICK.
0	I will not let him go.
0	He was withered, wrinkled, and loathsome of visage.
0	"I called last night, and they told me you were at the opera.
0	There was something terribly enthralling in the exercise of influence.
0	That was what he wanted.
0	Can they feel, I wonder, those white silent people we call the dead?
0	And what makes his conduct all the more heartless is, that he was perfectly well aware from the first that I have no brother, that I never had a brother, and that I don't intend to have a brother, not even of any kind.
0	Do you think that terrible?
0	They walked on till they met a policeman and brought him back.
0	How good to see the moon!
0	His people not merely live, but they live in thought.
0	"Of course I know her.
0	The big battalions are on my side.
0	Can’t make out how you stand London Society.
0	"So you think that it is only God who sees the soul, Basil?
0	It is the best thing I have ever done.
0	[Pencil and note-book in hand.]
0	How you men stand up for each other!
0	Oh, what a tragedy for a woman to have loved you!
0	But I must confess that I like all memoirs.
0	"It is in all the morning papers.
0	‘How shall I thank thee?’ said the Star-Child, ‘for lo!
0	I did not know she had married a second time.
0	He knew that this forgery had been discovered, and that by returning to England he was imperilling his life.
0	You really must not allow yourself to become sunburnt.
0	Outside, the day may be blue and gold, but the light that creeps down through the thickly-muffled glass of the small iron-barred window beneath which one sits is grey and niggard.
0	He knows perfectly well why.
0	Yesterday evening you wrote me a very beautiful, womanly letter, asking me for my help.
0	I have the greatest contempt for optimism.
0	I think my husband has got seventeen of them."
0	I need hardly say I would do anything in the world to ensure Gwendolen's happiness.
0	I do not know it.
0	Through a little hole in the wall the children had crept in, and they were sitting in the branches of the trees.
0	Suddenly she caught a glimpse of golden hair and laughing lips, and in an open carriage with two ladies Dorian Gray drove past.
0	Miss Worsley, Caroline, is an orphan.
0	You shall not leave my room till I have got it.
0	The moment was lost in vulgar details.
0	I do not know to the present moment whether he is aware that I was even conscious of his action.
0	After some time a large White Duck swam up to him.
0	Her claim is that she is universal, and that in all her manifestations she is one.
0	I would certainly advise you to do so.
0	He was trying to gather up the scarlet threads of life and to weave them into a pattern; to find his way through the sanguine labyrinth of passion through which he was wandering.
0	I haven't got a brother.
0	This New Life, as through my love of Dante I like sometimes to call it, is of course no new life at all, but simply the continuance, by means of development, and evolution, of my former life.
0	The inquest is to take place this afternoon.
0	It is a terrible thing, Lord Darlington.
0	To lose one parent, Mr. Worthing, may be regarded as a misfortune; to lose both looks like carelessness.
0	All honours must be shown to Cæsar's ambassadors, must they not?
0	I am sure there were others though I did not see them.
0	Margaret, my love, my wife that shall be some day—yes, my wife!
0	Upon the other hand, whenever a community or a powerful section of a community, or a government of any kind, attempts to dictate to the artist what he is to do, Art either entirely vanishes, or becomes stereotyped, or degenerates into a low and ignoble form of craft.
0	[Retreating to back of sofa.]
0	Miss Worsley would not let you kiss her.
0	Mrs. Cheveley has handed over to Lord Goring the document that was in her possession, and he has destroyed it.
0	Who is this woman who is looking at me?
0	The books that the world calls immoral are books that show the world its own shame.
0	I might see her personally.
0	One afternoon, a month later, Dorian Gray was reclining in a luxurious arm-chair, in the little library of Lord Henry's house in Mayfair.
0	Every great man nowadays has his disciples, and it is always Judas who writes the biography.
0	said Lord Henry, smiling, and taking Hallward by the arm, he almost led him into the house.
0	Don't try to influence him.
0	It does not spring from inspiration, but it makes others inspired.
0	Well, dear, I hope you like the park.
0	Their pictures are, as a natural consequence, insufferably tedious.
0	We are unwelcome when we reappear.
0	And then the eldest son has quarrelled with his father, and it is said that when they meet at the club Lord Brancaster always hides himself behind the money article in _The Times_.
0	But man is naturally social.
0	We tread out the grapes, and another drinks the wine.
0	Plato had, of course, dealt with many definitely artistic subjects, such as the importance of unity in a work of art, the necessity for tone and harmony, the æsthetic value of appearances, the relation of the visible arts to the external world, and the relation of fiction to fact.
0	There were moments, later on, when it had the wild passion of violins.
0	I must look at them through Time’s telescope.
0	He loves Greek gems, and Persian carpets, and Elizabethan translations of _Cupid and Psyche_, and the _Hypnerotomachia_, and book-binding and early editions, and wide-margined proofs.
0	It looks quite the happy English home.
0	Margaret is twenty-one, and I have never admitted that I am more than twenty-nine, or thirty at the most.
0	She will represent something to you that you have never known."
0	They would shut him up if he persisted in his story....
0	And when, in some dim frescoed fane, or pillared sunlit portico, the child of Leto stood upon his pedestal, those who passed by, δια λαμπροτάτου βαίνοντες αβρως αιθέρος, became conscious of a new influence that had come across their lives, and dreamily, or with a sense of strange and quickening joy, went to their homes or daily labour, or wandered, it may be, through the city gates to that nymph-haunted meadow where young Phædrus bathed his feet, and, lying there on the soft grass, beneath the tall wind—whispering planes and flowering _agnus castus_, began to think of the wonder of beauty, and grew silent with unaccustomed awe.
0	Simply this: that in the best days of art there were no art-critics.
0	Your guardian has a very emotional nature.
0	It is something I know.
0	Nothing survives being thought of.
0	She is made to be a public speaker.
0	Cake is rarely seen at the best houses nowadays.
0	Many of the most important problems of the last few centuries, such as the continuance of personal government in England, or of feudalism in France, have been solved entirely by means of physical force.
0	I think you’ll find he will have a great deal to say to you to-morrow.
0	Dear Dr. Daubeny, our rector here, provides, with the assistance of his curates, really admirable recreations for the poor during the winter.
0	But he is terrible, he is terrible!
0	In the August of the next year he poisoned Mrs. Abercrombie, his wife’s mother, and in the following December he poisoned the lovely Helen Abercrombie, his sister-in-law.
0	Suddenly his eye fell on the screen that he had placed in front of the portrait, and he started.
0	Of course, I made him so.
0	"Because they are so sentimental."
0	It is a sort of fellow-feeling, I suppose.
0	Your Christian name has an irresistible fascination.
0	You will write, won’t you, to Mrs. Cheveley, and tell her that you cannot support this scandalous scheme of hers?
0	“How wonderful the stars are,” he said to her, “and how wonderful is the power of love!” “I hope my dress will be ready in time for the State-ball,” she answered; “I have ordered passion-flowers to be embroidered on it; but the seamstresses are so lazy.” He passed over the river, and saw the lanterns hanging to the masts of the ships.
0	You must go down to Richmond at once, see Harden personally, and tell him to send twice as many orchids as I ordered, and to have as few white ones as possible.
0	Movement, that problem of the visible arts, can be truly realised by Literature alone.
0	"But what is the matter?
0	Now I find hidden somewhere away in my nature something that tells me that nothing in the whole world is meaningless, and suffering least of all.
0	But men are so terribly, terribly exacting, are they not?
0	This was Mrs. Umney, the housekeeper, whom Mrs. Otis, at Lady Canterville's earnest request, had consented to keep in her former position.
0	Some of your speculations succeed, some fail.
0	Why should he have been murdered?
0	I am thoroughly disappointed with myself.
0	Some resemblance, no doubt, the creative work of the critic will have to the work that has stirred him to creation, but it will be such resemblance as exists, not between Nature and the mirror that the painter of landscape or figure may be supposed to hold up to her, but between Nature and the work of the decorative artist.
0	I really don’t know,” replied the Linnet; “and I am sure that I don’t care.” “It is quite evident then that you have no sympathy in your nature,” said the Water-rat.
0	As for Mr. Rider Haggard, who really has, or had once, the makings of a perfectly magnificent liar, he is now so afraid of being suspected of genius that when he does tell us anything marvellous, he feels bound to invent a personal reminiscence, and to put it into a footnote as a kind of cowardly corroboration.
0	It is nothing, dear, nothing.
0	You have never heard of papa, I suppose?
0	When they took lovers, it was merely to have some one with whom they could have scenes.
0	She abandoned religion for mesmerism, mesmerism for politics, and politics for the melodramatic excitements of philanthropy.
0	The monster had a rose of its own, petal for petal the same!
0	He was a hero to his valet, who bullied him, and a terror to most of his relations, whom he bullied in turn.
0	You must have overtired yourself.
0	Did I teach the one his vices, and the other his debauchery?
0	“This must be the deputation,” said the Rocket, and he tried to look very dignified.
0	I said it; did I not say it?
0	It was the imagination that set remorse to dog the feet of sin.
0	"You have always had that, Cecil."
0	In _Marius the Epicurean_ Pater seeks to reconcile the artistic life with the life of religion, in the deep, sweet, and austere sense of the word.
0	I am not thirsty, Tetrarch.
0	"My dear fellow, mediaeval art is charming, but mediaeval emotions are out of date.
0	Indeed I have never undeceived him on any question.
0	"You are too charming to go in for philanthropy, Mr. Gray--far too charming."
0	He was afraid of certainty.
0	Like Aristotle, like Goethe after he had read Kant, we desire the concrete, and nothing but the concrete can satisfy us.
0	What sort of existence will he have if you rob him of the fruits of his ambition, if you take him from the splendour of a great political career, if you close the doors of public life against him, if you condemn him to sterile failure, he who was made for triumph and success?
0	You shan't sit next either of them.
0	He liked the birds and the lizards immensely, and thought that the flowers were the most marvellous things in the whole world, except of course the Infanta, but then she had given him the beautiful white rose, and she loved him, and that made a great difference.
0	You are quite right, Lady Caroline.
0	I think most of the birds have gone to the open.
0	My dear father, if I am to get married, surely you will allow me to choose the time, place, and person?
0	Robert, I swear to you on my honour that that lady is stainless and guiltless of all offence towards you.
0	It is the mainstay of our moral system in England, Lady Stutfield.
0	Dickens knew its clothes and its comedy.
0	She has found me out, Arthur, she has found me out.
0	And besides, Rachel, I wasn’t much older than you were.
0	And yet the thing would still live on.
0	"I want you to come out with me for a walk, Sibyl.
0	"Parker has brought out the drinks, and if you stay any longer in this glare, you will be quite spoiled, and Basil will never paint you again.
0	‘Thou wilt not follow me into the depths of the sea?’ ‘Once every year I will come to this place, and call to thee,’ said the Soul.
0	But position and wealth are not everything.
0	I shall never let my wife use it again.
0	It is the one book a young man about town should know thoroughly, and it is the best thing in fiction the English have ever done.
0	He was just about to give it when he suddenly remembered the opening incident in Mr. Stevenson’s story.
0	I don’t think they can be quite improving reading for any one.
0	“I hope not,” said the Frog complacently.
0	‘When the moon rose I returned to the same place and sought for the house, but it was no longer there.
0	your dress is sadly simple, and your hair seems almost as Nature might have left it.
0	Indeed some of the children really cried, and had to be comforted with sweetmeats, and the Grand Inquisitor himself was so affected that he could not help saying to Don Pedro that it seemed to him intolerable that things made simply out of wood and coloured wax, and worked mechanically by wires, should be so unhappy and meet with such terrible misfortunes.
0	It can do for us what can be done neither by physics nor metaphysics.
0	It is the world in which I have been living.
0	They are the mere body-snatchers of literature.
0	Recognising that the most perfect art is that which most fully mirrors man in all his infinite variety, they elaborated the criticism of language, considered in the light of the mere material of that art, to a point to which we, with our accentual system of reasonable or emotional emphasis, can barely if at all attain; studying, for instance, the metrical movements of a prose as scientifically as a modern musician studies harmony and counterpoint, and, I need hardly say, with much keener æsthetic instinct.
0	You are bought and sold.
0	Sick of using it about others.
0	One is apt to grow old-fashioned quite suddenly.
0	This is a terrible thing, an awful thing to ask of me.
0	Why do you threaten me?
0	"I will go out to the garden with you.
0	said Hallward, speaking very slowly and with a strained touch of pain in his voice.
0	The cool breezes of the morning lift the gilt threads from her brow.
0	And till you count what is a shame in a woman to be an infamy in a man, you will always be unjust, and Right, that pillar of fire, and Wrong, that pillar of cloud, will be made dim to your eyes, or be not seen at all, or if seen, not regarded.
0	That indeed is the reason why our criminals are, as a class, so absolutely uninteresting from any psychological point of view.
0	There will be no people living in fetid dens and fetid rags, and bringing up unhealthy, hunger-pinched children in the midst of impossible and absolutely repulsive surroundings.
0	When I came hither I slipped in blood, which is an evil omen; and I heard, I am sure I heard in the air a beating of wings, a beating of giant wings.
0	And before I allow you to marry her, you will have to clear up the whole question of Cecily.
0	He was to leave the vessel at Melbourne, bid a polite good-bye to the captain, and go off at once to the gold-fields.
0	It is too difficult, because to meet such requirements the artist would have to do violence to his temperament, would have to write not for the artistic joy of writing, but for the amusement of half-educated people, and so would have to suppress his individualism, forget his culture, annihilate his style, and surrender everything that is valuable in him.
0	Certainly, more women grow old nowadays through the faithfulness of their admirers than through anything else!
0	Yet, though the Vatican has kept the rhetoric of its thunders, and lost the rod of its lightning, it is better for the artist not to live with Popes.
0	This is the last time I shall ever look on you.
0	Once a man has set his heart and soul on getting to a certain point, if he has to climb the crag, he climbs the crag; if he has to walk in the mire— LORD GORING.
0	The world is made by it, and yet the world cannot understand it: that is because the imagination is simply a manifestation of love, and it is love and the capacity for it that distinguishes one human being from another.
0	I will not—I cannot—she must come!
0	It was an admirable result.
0	How different an actress is!
0	Where she used to give us Corots and Daubignys, she gives us now exquisite Monets and entrancing Pissaros.
0	And yet I don't suppose that ten per cent of the proletariat live correctly."
0	He bids us listen to his misery; we stop, and with dry and gaping lips he tells us how he dreams day and night of the brooks of clear water that in cool dewy channels gush down the green Casentine hills.
0	I quite agree with you, Lady Markby.
0	She looked such a child, and seemed to know so little about acting.
0	But I can leave him my property.
0	I will not stay here.
0	"How you men can fall in love with that woman!"
0	I want to talk to you about a great political and financial scheme, about this Argentine Canal Company, in fact.
0	"But I don't know what they mean."
0	[LADY WINDERMERE _starts and looks up_.
0	Not in the smallest degree.
0	She has the mien of a sick person.
0	But I will have nothing to do with it."
0	"We are talking about poor Dartmoor, Lord Henry," cried the duchess, nodding pleasantly to him across the table.
0	This is not merely necessary, but it is the only possible way by which we can get either the one or the other.
0	The Ideal Man, then, in his relations to _us_.
0	Lying for the sake of the improvement of the young, which is the basis of home education, still lingers amongst us, and its advantages are so admirably set forth in the early books of Plato’s _Republic_ that it is unnecessary to dwell upon them here.
0	asked Lord Henry after a pause.
0	I do not think you would be suitable as a private secretary to Lord Illingworth.
0	We have no sympathy at all with the moral indignation of our time against M. Zola.
0	I have all kinds of beautiful sentiments myself, so there is a great sympathy between us.” “Well,” said the Linnet, hopping now on one leg and now on the other, “as soon as the winter was over, and the primroses began to open their pale yellow stars, the Miller said to his wife that he would go down and see little Hans.
0	And yet, who, that knew anything about life, would surrender the chance of remaining always young, however fantastic that chance might be, or with what fateful consequences it might be fraught?
0	there is a crook of gold for whoever finds it,’ they cried, and they set to and ran, so eager were they for the gold.
0	It was not considered the thing.
0	The elder man buried his face in his hands.
0	That is the wonderful thing about it, but I am afraid you don’t understand the poetry of life.
0	It is his brother--his elder brother.
0	cried Mrs. Vane, looking up to the ceiling in search of an imaginary gallery.
0	Just where good qualities should be.
0	_After a time_ GERALD _raises his mother up_, _puts his am round her_, _and leads her from the room_.]
0	If I can produce only one beautiful work of art I shall be able to rob malice of its venom, and cowardice of its sneer, and to pluck out the tongue of scorn by the roots.
0	And the affected style of dress in the last century was the natural characteristic of a society of affected manners and affected conversation—a characteristic which the realistic dramatist will highly value down to the smallest detail of accuracy, and the materials for which he can get only from archæology.
0	Ah, nowadays people marry as often as they can, don’t they?
0	The two most deeply suggestive figures of Greek Mythology were, for religion, Demeter, an Earth Goddess, not one of the Olympians, and for art, Dionysus, the son of a mortal woman to whom the moment of his birth had proved also the moment of her death.
0	It is pure unadulterated country life.
0	Hence came their objection to realism.
0	The air is so pleasant there.
0	"Well, I quite admit it," said the Ghost, petulantly, "but it was a purely family matter, and concerned no one else."
0	He did not know that the Japanese people are, as I have said, simply a mode of style, an exquisite fancy of art.
0	The sculptor hewed from the marble block the great white-limbed Hermes that slept within it.
0	When each member of the community has sufficient for his wants, and is not interfered with by his neighbour, it will not be an object of any interest to him to interfere with anyone else.
0	The public-houses were just closing, and dim men and women were clustering in broken groups round their doors.
0	Well, I am bound to say that I think you should have told her years ago.
0	"You need not be afraid.
0	[_He writes the envelope slowly_.
0	Look at the successful men in any of the learned professions.
0	He gains his inspiration from form, and from form purely, as an artist should.
0	I was fearfully idle when I was at school, and I couldn’t pass an examination now to save my life.
0	He will always be reminding us that great works of art are living things—are, in fact, the only things that live.
0	If I had, it would have stopped the music at once.
0	Indeed, so completely has man’s personality been absorbed by his possessions that the English law has always treated offences against a man’s property with far more severity than offences against his person, and property is still the test of complete citizenship.
0	'In all beauty,' says Bacon, 'there is some strangeness of proportion,' and of those who are born of the spirit--of those, that is to say, who like himself are dynamic forces--Christ says that they are like the wind that 'bloweth where it listeth, and no man can tell whence it cometh and whither it goeth.'
0	"I am afraid I must be going," exclaimed Lady Henry, breaking an awkward silence with her silly sudden laugh.
0	Why do you put it on as a bracelet?
0	I am quite aware of the fact, and I don't propose to discuss modern culture.
0	Do you know, Lady Caroline, I don’t think the frivolity of the wife has ever anything to do with it.
0	Dorian drew himself up with an effort and smiled.
0	"I never heard of her.
0	"Life has everything in store for you, Dorian.
0	I did it to the full, as one should do everything that one does.
0	We have whispered the secret of our love beneath the cowl of Abelard, and in the stained raiment of Villon have put our shame into song.
0	Oh, I merely came back to water the roses.
0	It must be the next world.
0	“I am afraid it will not go with my dress,” she answered; “and, besides, the Chamberlain’s nephew has sent me some real jewels, and everybody knows that jewels cost far more than flowers.” “Well, upon my word, you are very ungrateful,” said the Student angrily; and he threw the rose into the street, where it fell into the gutter, and a cart-wheel went over it.
0	[SIR JAMES ROYSTON _gives the_ DUCHESS _his aim and escorts her into the ball-room_.]
0	Therefore weep no more but be glad.’ ‘How shall I reward thee?’ cried the Star-Child, ‘for lo!
0	What else should bring one anywhere?
0	Also He healed two lepers that were seated before the Gate of Capernaum simply by touching them.
0	I decline to give my consent.
0	Gertrude, you have no right to use that word.
0	"Our host is a delightful topic.
0	I am not sorry for anything that has happened.
0	One should sympathize with the colour, the beauty, the joy of life.
0	Fathers should be neither seen nor heard.
0	Be always searching for new sensations.
0	You must have a cigarette.
0	The less punishment, the less crime.
0	The gipsies had been caught on Brockley meadows, but she was not with them, and they had explained their sudden departure by saying that they had mistaken the date of Chorton Fair, and had gone off in a hurry for fear they should be late.
0	You were the most unspoiled creature in the whole world.
0	What on earth you are serious about I haven't got the remotest idea.
0	[_With a sigh of pleasure_.]
0	His boyhood was passed at Linden House, Turnham Green, one of those many fine Georgian mansions that have unfortunately disappeared before the inroads of the suburban builder, and to its lovely gardens and well-timbered park he owed that simple and impassioned love of nature which never left him all through his life, and which made him so peculiarly susceptible to the spiritual influences of Wordsworth’s poetry.
0	Which is the most comfortable chair?
0	I never change, except in my affections.
0	You have had more to do with my life than you think"; and, taking up the lamp, he opened the door and went in.
0	She moved out into the sunlight, and through her red hair rippled the wind.
0	I was explaining the title.
0	When the wrong, and the disease, and the injustice are removed, it will have no further place.
0	You are unfit to enter it.
0	The little way in grey city or green field that saw their sin is small; to find those who know nothing of what they have done they need go no further than a bird might fly between the twilight and the dawn; but for me the world is shrivelled to a handsbreadth, and everywhere I turn my name is written on the rocks in lead.
0	As he left the room, Dorian Gray smiled to himself.
0	You can have till dinner-time if it would be of any convenience to you.
0	‘Go thou to-night, and stand under the branches of the hornbeam, and wait for my coming.
0	You will no doubt be surprised to hear that I can fly up into the sky, and come down in a shower of golden rain.” “I don’t think much of that,” said the Duck, “as I cannot see what use it is to any one.
0	The gods are hidden from each other.
0	It might lead to complications.
0	At Hobart Town he started a studio, and returned to sketching and portrait-painting, and his conversation and manners seem not to have lost their charm.
0	And the merchant said to him, ‘Why dost thou sit in the market-place, seeing that the booths are closed and the bales corded?’ And the young Fisherman answered him, ‘I can find no inn in this city, nor have I any kinsman who might give me shelter.’ ‘Are we not all kinsmen?’ said the merchant.
0	Ah, nowadays that is no guarantee of respectability of character.
0	Besides, I don't know how to spell a cough.
0	I am not at all in favour of amusements for the poor, Jane.
0	Was it not Gautier who used to write about _la consolation des arts_?
0	Form and colour tell us of form and colour--that is all.
0	Well, I am very proud of him.
0	[_The Soldiers recoil._] Tetrarch, Tetrarch, command your soldiers that they bring me the head of Jokanaan.
0	What more can one say of poetry?
0	Yes; men’s good temper shows they are not so sensitive as we are, not so finely strung.
0	There is the same world for all of us, and good and evil, sin and innocence, go through it hand in hand.
0	With her red hair falling around her, she stood at the opening of the cave, and in her hand she had a spray of wild hemlock that was blossoming.
0	They should have known also how to interpret sorrow better.
0	The children of the Woodcutter, and the other children of the village, he despised, saying that they were of mean parentage, while he was noble, being sprang from a Star, and he made himself master over them, and called them his servants.
0	Anything will serve his purpose.
0	It seemed to have crept like a horrible disease over the wrinkled fingers.
0	To realize one's nature perfectly--that is what each of us is here for.
0	Give me back that letter.
0	But he felt afraid of him, and ashamed of being afraid.
0	I can't describe to you what I felt at that moment.
0	You have never been poor, and never known what ambition is.
0	Suddenly there had come some one across his life who seemed to have disclosed to him life's mystery.
0	“Spring has forgotten this garden,” they cried, “so we will live here all the year round.”  The Snow covered up the grass with her great white cloak, and the Frost painted all the trees silver.
0	I know she had lost all sense of pleasure in life.
0	I am coming to you.
0	Are the others very bad?
0	The fierce robbers come down from the mountains, and carry off the little children, and sell them to the Moors.
0	The difference between objective and subjective work is one of external form merely.
0	I have always been kind to you.
0	"No, thank you, I never eat anything now; but it is very kind of you, all the same, and you are much nicer than the rest of your horrid, rude, vulgar, dishonest family."
0	"You must come and explain that to me some afternoon, Lord Henry.
0	I do not wish to say anything more.
0	"I think I have a right to know."
0	Let me be the first, then.
0	"You will complete it," answered the old gentleman with a courteous bow.
0	[_Hiding her feelings with a trivial laugh_.]
0	you are beginning to reform me.
0	Now I mustn’t keep you.
0	It can wait, Merriman for .
0	He then retired to a comfortable lead coffin, and stayed there till evening.
0	You are unjust to women in England.
0	In England, the arts that have escaped best are the arts in which the public take no interest.
0	Nothing spoils a romance so much as a sense of humour in the woman.
0	But if I had known he was going to make you ask her here to-night, I think I would have told you.
0	You have to pay now.
0	I suppose that when a man has once loved a woman, he will do anything for her, except continue to love her?
0	Mind you don’t believe a word he says.
0	They set down the palanquin and knocked three times with a copper hammer.
0	What are American dry goods?
0	It is one of the best things in them.
0	And so tell me this story, Ernest.
0	Makes me almost in the prime of life, eh, Phipps?
0	And the little Swallow began to think, and then he fell asleep.
0	What is this miracle of the daughter of Jairus?
0	When he arrived he saw the children playing in the garden.
0	Horrid word ‘health.’ LORD ILLINGWORTH.
0	One can always find them.
0	It had brought melancholy across his passions.
0	Awful manners young Hopper has!
0	The only form of lying that is absolutely beyond reproach is lying for its own sake, and the highest development of this is, as we have already pointed out, Lying in Art.
0	May I ask if it is in this house that your invalid friend Mr. Bunbury resides?
0	I wasn’t at all surprised.
0	Caroline, this is Mrs. Arbuthnot, one of my sweetest friends.
0	I don't know what to say.
0	He is like the lady in the French comedy who keeps talking about “le beau ciel d’Italie.”  Besides, he has fallen into the bad habit of uttering moral platitudes.
0	I shall have to give up going to the Berkshires.
0	And very becoming, I am quite sure.
0	Yet, every day the swanlike daughter of Leda comes out on the battlements, and looks down at the tide of war.
0	I must beg you, accordingly, to take them to London with you, and to regard them simply as a portion of your property which has been restored to you under certain strange conditions.
0	The spray of lilac fell from his hand upon the gravel.
0	Justice may be slow, mother, but it comes in the end.
0	Shall you see Basil between this and then?
0	Besides, she did not love him.
0	"You are speaking about things you don't understand, James.
0	When people saw me they laughed.
0	Art only begins where Imitation ends, but something must come into my work, of fuller memory of words perhaps, of richer cadences, of more curious effects, of simpler architectural order, of some aesthetic quality at any rate.
0	[_Looks about room and approaches the writing-table_.]
0	You are in some trouble.
0	Remote from reality, and with her eyes turned away from the shadows of the cave, Art reveals her own perfection, and the wondering crowd that watches the opening of the marvellous, many-petalled rose fancies that it is its own history that is being told to it, its own spirit that is finding expression in a new form.
0	The etcher of a picture robs the painting of its fair colours, but shows us by the use of a new material its true colour-quality, its tones and values, and the relations of its masses, and so is, in his way, a critic of it, for the critic is he who exhibits to us a work of art in a form different from that of the work itself, and the employment of a new material is a critical as well as a creative element.
0	Do not dance, my daughter.
0	In both of these theatres there have been individual artists, who have succeeded in creating in their audiences—and every theatre in London has its own audience—the temperament to which Art appeals.
0	How long you have been about it!
0	I think it would be so very, very helpful.
0	It was rumoured of him once that he was about to join the Roman Catholic communion, and certainly the Roman ritual had always a great attraction for him.
0	Don’t spoil the one good thing I have done in my life by telling it to any one.
0	It stopped opposite one of the booths and began eating the oranges, and the man only laughed.
0	In Art, the public accept what has been, because they cannot alter it, not because they appreciate it.
0	And I find that I know Lady Chiltern already.
0	The artist is never morbid.
0	When, at the Renaissance, Greek literature dawned upon Europe, the soil had been in some measure prepared for it.
0	The critic, then, considered as the interpreter, will give no less than he receives, and lend as much as he borrows?
0	'Nothing is more rare in any man,' says Emerson, 'than an act of his own.'
0	What has poor Mr. Trafford done this time?
0	One does not see anything until one sees its beauty.
0	I don’t understand a word, Lord Illingworth.
0	A cry of pain broke from the lad's lips, and he leaped to his feet, tearing his hands away from Lord Henry's grasp.
0	There was Sir Henry Ashton, who had to leave England with a tarnished name.
0	Don’t mention to anybody that I have taken charge of this brooch.
0	It is not your custom.
0	I will keep it now.
0	Why should those who cannot create take upon themselves to estimate the value of creative work?
0	Jane, I was just saying what a pleasant party you have asked us to meet.
0	Soul and body, body and soul--how mysterious they were!
0	Well, I should fancy you are all a good deal bored with each other.
0	He was tired of hearing his own name now.
0	Lord Henry went out to the garden and found Dorian Gray burying his face in the great cool lilac-blossoms, feverishly drinking in their perfume as if it had been wine.
0	He loves you too much.
0	Leaning back with half-closed eyes, he kept saying over and over to himself:      "Devant une facade rose,         Sur le marbre d'un escalier."
0	To call an artist morbid because he deals with morbidity as his subject-matter is as silly as if one called Shakespeare mad because he wrote ‘King Lear.’ On the whole, an artist in England gains something by being attacked.
0	He watched them, and their secret became his.
0	When Ernest and I were engaged, he swore to me positively on his knees that he had never loved any one before in the whole course of his life.
0	There were forty camels in the caravan, and the mules were twice forty in number.
0	I told you I was not interested, and I beg you to go.
0	I’ll give her a lecture through the door.
0	It's pleasant, is it not, to see so perfect a reconciliation?
0	The marriage, I think, had better take place quite soon.
0	LORD GORING _rushes to the door of the drawing-room_, _when_ MRS. CHEVELEY _comes out_, _looking radiant and much amused_.]
0	But, surely, the higher you place the creative artist, the lower must the critic rank.
0	But, on the whole, his taste was good and sound.
0	You have kept those five dances for him, Agatha?
0	By the way, I want to ask you a question, Miss Mabel.
0	The essay simply represents an artistic standpoint, and in æsthetic criticism attitude is everything.
0	[_Looking at himself in the glass_.]
0	One would hardly have guessed the close relationship that existed between them.
0	"No; there was nothing else to see.
0	She said that he was very earnest and had a beautiful nature.
0	She was simply a girl in a village.
0	Some six weeks ago I was allowed by the doctor to have white bread to eat instead of the coarse black or brown bread of ordinary prison fare.
0	I needn’t tell you I have not the slightest intention of marrying.
0	I will insist upon his doing it.
0	That would not have been true.
0	It knows that people are good when they are let alone.
0	* * * * * And he fell asleep again, and dreamed, and this was his dream.
0	In his own entreaty to the young man, 'Sell all that thou hast and give to the poor,' it is not of the state of the poor that he is thinking but of the soul of the young man, the soul that wealth was marring.
0	You have been a good friend to me, Arthur, a thoroughly good friend.
0	In the grass, white daisies were tremulous.
0	He is quite delightful and rather reminds me of you."
0	And boys are careless often and without thinking give pain, and we always fancy that when they come to man’s estate and know us better they will repay us.
0	I am bound to acknowledge that it was with a good deal of difficulty that he brought himself to adopt this last mode of protection.
0	Did it merely take cognizance of what passed within the soul?
0	Worthing is a place in Sussex.
0	I do not know it.’ But the merchants mocked at him, and said, ‘Of what use is a man’s soul to us?
0	You have lost life’s secret.
0	"Forgive me, sir," muttered James Vane.
0	Old myth and legend and dream took shape and substance.
0	"I am always telling him so, Lady Narborough," said Lord Henry with a bow.
0	And it had all been what art should be--unconscious, ideal, and remote.
0	"I am going," he said at last in his calm clear voice.
0	You must not mind my speaking quite plainly to you.
0	Even if people employ actual violence, they are not to be violent in turn.
0	His plan of action was this.
0	I am charmed to hear it.
0	One of them was Sir Henry Ashton's uncle.
0	"You went to the opera?"
0	And just as it is only in art-criticism, and through it, that we can apprehend the Platonic theory of ideas, so it is only in art-criticism, and through it, that we can realise Hegel’s system of contraries.
0	Indeed, so far from being nervous, she was absolutely self-contained.
0	I am glad to hear it.
0	"It is the finest portrait of modern times.
0	May I ask what position she holds in your household?
0	[_Turning round with feigned surprise_.]
0	It is not my business.
0	The other half of the garden had its secrets for me also.
0	’Twas on a summer’s evening, in his tent,     The day he overcame the Nervii:—     Look, in this place ran Cassius’ dagger through:     See what a rent the envious Casca made:     Through this the well-beloved Brutus stabbed.
0	Agatha has found it on the map.
0	I wonder how it came here”; and he picked the rocket out of the ditch.
0	Ah, here is a letter, Caroline, from dear Mrs. Arbuthnot.
0	I have a dim idea, dear Lord Illingworth, that you are always on the side of the sinners, and I know I always try to be on the side of the saints, but that is as far as I get.
0	I don't know, Mr. Moncrieff.
0	It was to have its service of the intellect, certainly, yet it was never to accept any theory or system that would involve the sacrifice of any mode of passionate experience.
0	Dorian Gray grew pale as he watched her.
0	My dressmaker wouldn’t like it, and a woman’s first duty in life is to her dressmaker, isn’t it?
0	As he was recovering from the illness that had led him almost to the gates of death, he conceived the idea of taking up literature as an art.
0	He went towards it, and it came to meet him, copying each step that he made, and stopping when he stopped himself.
0	But she’s never morbid, never morbid.
0	Talk in your sleep, sir?
0	Talks more and says less than anybody I ever met.
0	He did not speak your name.
0	Lord Henry elevated his eyebrows and looked at him in amazement through the thin blue wreaths of smoke that curled up in such fanciful whorls from his heavy, opium-tainted cigarette.
0	Before heaven, it is not true.
0	One should never trust a woman who tells one her real age.
0	One should always eat muffins quite calmly.
0	Your vanity is ridiculous, your conduct an outrage, and your presence in my garden utterly absurd.
0	‘How shall we meet?’ cried the young Fisherman.
0	It hinders you from realising your perfection.
0	No nice girl should ever waltz with such particularly younger sons!
0	The phrases came back to his memory, and he repeated them over and over to himself.
0	It is a word I should not have used.
0	These are the poor, and amongst them there is no grace of manner, or charm of speech, or civilisation, or culture, or refinement in pleasures, or joy of life.
0	Towards the close it is suggested that, caught in a cunning spring set for another, they have met, or may meet, with a violent and sudden death.
0	"I asked her whether, like Marguerite de Navarre, she had their hearts embalmed and hung at her girdle.
0	They are ordered specially for Aunt Augusta.
0	The storm raged fiercely all that night, but nothing of particular note occurred.
0	I fear I could hardly agree with you there.
0	I had never seen anything like it before.
0	He felt a wild longing for the unstained purity of his boyhood--his rose-white boyhood, as Lord Henry had once called it.
0	Mere colour, unspoiled by meaning, and unallied with definite form, can speak to the soul in a thousand different ways.
0	He struggled madly for life, and by a terrible effort wrenched the tightening fingers away.
0	The man who sees both sides of a question, is a man who sees absolutely nothing at all.
0	I have never met any really wicked person before.
0	Why should they be grateful for the crumbs that fall from the rich man’s table?
0	"Yes," he continued, "that is one of the great secrets of life.
0	We have emancipated them, but they remain slaves looking for their masters, all the same.
0	Somebody—was it Burke?—called journalism the fourth estate.
0	A pillory is a terrific reality.
0	And, certainly, to him life itself was the first, the greatest, of the arts, and for it all the other arts seemed to be but a preparation.
0	The boy is to be with you for six months in the year, and with me for the other six.
0	"Are you very much in love with him?"
0	She is one of those absurdly pretty Philistines to whom one can deny nothing.
0	Bunbury is somewhere else at present.
0	said Lord Henry at last.
0	And I pity any woman who is married to a man called John.
0	They were filled with wonder, and entreated me to pass in.
0	If people abuse them, they are not to answer back.
0	It justifies its own existence by the great Darwinian principle of the survival of the vulgarest.
0	There is a very wide difference.
0	My mother offered you six hundred a year.
0	"Harry," said Basil Hallward, looking him straight in the face, "every portrait that is painted with feeling is a portrait of the artist, not of the sitter.
0	You see, Phipps, Fashion is what one wears oneself.
0	They chronicle, with degrading avidity, the sins of the second-rate, and with the conscientiousness of the illiterate give us accurate and prosaic details of the doings of people of absolutely no interest whatsoever.
0	He seemed to have forgotten all that he had gone through.
0	Christ's place indeed is with the poets.
0	There is some answer to you, but I cannot find it.
0	"You are infamous, absolutely infamous!"
0	She is a lady considerably advanced in years.
0	I implore you to do what I ask you.
0	_Morning-room at Sir Robert Chiltern’s house_.
0	And the young King started, and, turning round, he saw a man habited as a pilgrim and holding in his hand a mirror of silver.
0	And I am much stronger than you are.
0	No doubt you have many other calls of a similar character to make in the neighbourhood.
0	Dear mother, I am afraid I kept you waiting.
0	They never rise beyond the level of misrepresentation, and actually condescend to prove, to discuss, to argue.
0	The generation into which I was born was tedious.
0	A low moan broke from her, and she flung herself at his feet and lay there like a trampled flower.
0	Canst thou make these things not to be?
0	Yes, Mr. Worthing, what have you got to say to me?
0	These kaleidoscopic changes naturally amused the party very much, and bets on the subject were freely made every evening.
0	what a life I would have then!
0	Dorian Gray grew sick with fear.
0	_Venetian red hair_, _aquiline nose_, _and long throat_.
0	It was strange, but everything seemed to have its double in this invisible wall of clear water.
0	“How cool I feel,” said the boy, “I must be getting better”; and he sank into a delicious slumber.
0	On the table lies a book of Hours, ‘cased in a cover of solid silver gilt, wrought with quaint devices and studded with small brilliants and rubies,’ and close by it ‘squats a little ugly monster, a Lar, perhaps, dug up in the sunny fields of corn-bearing Sicily.’  Some dark antique bronzes contrast with the pale gleam of two noble _Christi Crucifixi_, one carved in ivory, the other moulded in wax.’  He has his trays of Tassie’s gems, his tiny Louis-Quatorze _bonbonnière_ with a miniature by Petitot, his highly prized ‘brown-biscuit teapots, filagree-worked,’ his citron morocco letter-case, and his ‘pomona-green’ chair.
0	I don’t want you to have any.
0	I’ll have nothing to do with you.
0	You can open for me the portals of death's house, for love is always with you, and love is stronger than death is."
0	I think there are many things women should never forgive.
0	But his entire life also is the most wonderful of poems.
0	The little Dwarf frowned, and the monster frowned also.
0	Then she laughed and put her hand on his arm.
0	Her unhappy father is, I am glad to say, under the impression that she is attending a more than usually lengthy lecture by the University Extension Scheme on the Influence of a permanent income on Thought.
0	It is clear, then, that no Authoritarian Socialism will do.
0	Do you like such simple pleasures?
0	GRAND Rocket, that is what the man said.
0	I am not dining at home, so I shall not want you."
0	[_Rings electric bell_, _sits and writes card_.]
0	The merchants grind us down, and we must needs do their bidding.
0	At times he is almost edifying.
0	* * * * * And the Soul said to him, ‘When I left thee I turned my face to the East and journeyed.
0	Our season is almost over.
0	I don't think Dartmoor has a chance."
0	It is a dangerous thing to reform any one, Lady Windermere.
0	Don't take away from me the one person who gives to my art whatever charm it possesses:  my life as an artist depends on him.
0	However, please let Luigne Poë know that I am sensible of the honour he has done me.
0	And I wonder, by the way, what Lord Lytton would have said some time ago, at the Princess’s Theatre, had the curtain risen on his father’s Brutus reclining in a Queen Anne chair, attired in a flowing wig and a flowered dressing-gown, a costume which in the last century was considered peculiarly appropriate to an antique Roman!
0	And, after all, it is a very poor consolation to be told that the man who has given one a bad dinner, or poor wine, is irreproachable in his private life.
0	As for my daughter, she is merely a child, and has as yet, I am glad to say, but little interest in such appurtenances of idle luxury.
0	I wish to goodness we had a few fools left.
0	Hetty's heart is not broken.
0	"Discord is to be forced to be in harmony with others.
0	If it wasn’t so, life wouldn’t be worth living.
0	And when he had reached the shore of the sea, he loosed the cord from his hands, and took the seal of silence from his lips, and called to the little Mermaid.
0	I am sure that some misfortune will happen.
0	It has been so interesting getting to know your husband.
0	However, the explanation is not really difficult to find.
0	‘For the future let those who come to play with me have no hearts,’ she cried, and she ran out into the garden.
0	Dear Mr. Worthing, I trust this garb of woe does not betoken some terrible calamity?
0	I think I should like some supper very much.
0	Except, of course, in the Church.
0	Open it at that sad madrigal that begins     Que m’importe que tu sois sage?
0	We, too, might live like them, and set ourselves to witness with appropriate emotions the varied scenes that man and nature afford.
0	I am afraid you’re faithless.
0	Why should she not have it?
0	What it aims at is an Individualism expressing itself through joy.
0	And one of them ran faster than his mate, and outstripped him, and forced his way through the willows, and came out on the other side, and lo!
0	I have written to Lord Illingworth to tell him that he must marry you.
0	That is awfully kind of you, Lady Hunstanton.
0	I had never seen him before, and had never heard anything about him at the time, though I have heard a good deal since.
0	Algernon takes it at once.
0	The guards hastened on, and the butts of the lances rang upon the polished floor.
0	And you need not be afraid that Gerald won’t be my heir.
0	A negro brought me some mare’s milk in a wooden dish, and a piece of lamb’s flesh roasted.
0	Have you a grief that corrodes your heart?
0	There speaks the incestuous wife!
0	But this man hath never seen God.
0	It has larger issues, wider scope, greater ambitions.
0	If you look through this emerald you can see things which happen at a great distance.
0	I was merely talking to Mrs. Allonby about the leading articles in the London newspapers.
0	And, by the way, you must pay me a good deal of attention this evening.
0	No one ever does, except vegetarians and people like that.
0	In fact the gipsies were a great success.
0	It is some silly infatuation."
0	I was a schoolboy when you knew me.
0	Now I know that all men are monsters.
0	They miss their aim, too, these philanthropists and sentimentalists of our day, who are always chattering to one about one’s duty to one’s neighbour.
0	The Duchess had brought with her some lovely roses, which she strewed upon the grave, and after they had stood by it for some time they strolled into the ruined chancel of the old abbey.
0	There is always something ridiculous about the emotions of people whom one has ceased to love.
0	"I give the truths of to-morrow."
0	The latter he bequeathed to his disciples.
0	Good-bye!” and he flew away.
0	In the dim arrested light that struggled through the cream-coloured silk blinds, the face appeared to him to be a little changed.
0	"My dear Hiram," cried Mrs. Otis, "what can we do with a woman who faints?"
0	I am afraid, however, he would not have understood me."
0	Do tell me your conception of the Ideal Husband.
0	I am awfully obliged to you."
0	Lord Henry smiled, and leaning down, plucked a pink-petalled daisy from the grass and examined it.
0	A long line of boys carrying crates of striped tulips, and of yellow and red roses, defiled in front of him, threading their way through the huge, jade-green piles of vegetables.
0	“But where is your little companion?” he said: “the boy I put into the tree.”  The Giant loved him the best because he had kissed him.
0	You simply produce no effect.
0	He put her from him and left her in the rank grass, and going to the edge of the mountain he placed the knife in his belt and began to climb down.
0	Before his time there had been gods and men, and, feeling through the mysticism of sympathy that in himself each had been made incarnate, he calls himself the Son of the one or the Son of the other, according to his mood.
0	It will mock me some day--mock me horribly!"
0	You would no doubt wish me to make some slight allusion to this tragic domestic affliction next Sunday.
0	Your affection is inside of you.
0	You are not married to her already, and I don't think you ever will be.
0	Do, as a concession to my poor wits, Lord Darlington, just explain to me what you really mean.
0	MRS. CHEVELEY, _who accompanies her_, _is tall and rather slight_.
0	How absurd to talk of the equality of the sexes!
0	To live for others as a definite self-conscious aim was not his creed.
0	God gave you that child.
0	When he learns that Virgil is one of Mantua’s citizens, he falls upon his neck, and when he learns that he is the singer of Rome he falls before his feet.
0	Although she was a real Princess and the Infanta of Spain, she had only one birthday every year, just like the children of quite poor people, so it was naturally a matter of great importance to the whole country that she should have a really fine day for the occasion.
0	This is the brooch, isn’t it?
0	He started and looked round.
0	It is the last thing left in me, and the best: the ultimate discovery at which I have arrived, the starting-point for a fresh development.
0	Love only should one consider.
0	They would mar its beauty and eat away its grace.
0	It is the only thing I know anything about.
0	In his     amorous vein he dallied with that peerless Duchess of many-folio     odour; and with the heyday comedies of Beaumont and Fletcher he     induced light dreams.
0	There was something in the purity and refinement of that sad face that seemed to enrage him.
0	"It is perfectly monstrous," he said, at last, "the way people go about nowadays saying things against one behind one's back that are absolutely and entirely true."
0	Luncheon is on the table, my Lady!
0	"Let us go down to the theatre.
0	Dark hair and an innocent expression were the fashion then, Windermere!
0	Surely you know me well enough for that.
0	[_PARKER enters L. and crosses towards the ball-room R._  _Enter_ MRS. MRS. ERLYNNE.
0	Well, thou hast seen thy God, Jokanaan, but me, me, thou didst never see.
0	Grey threads of smoke came from it, and its odour as it burned was as the odour of the pink almond in spring.
0	Dear Mrs. Daubeny’s hearing is a little defective, is it not?
0	Well, you kept paying me elaborate compliments the whole evening.
0	Ah, give me time to think.
0	Then Death himself had touched her and taken her with him.
0	"It is not my property, Harry."
0	What else is there to live for, father?
0	The young captain has slain himself!
0	He would lose everything, even his power to feel love.
0	He almost dreaded his valet leaving the room.
0	Nothing more, I am quite sure.
0	He knew what was waiting for him there; saw it, indeed, and, shuddering, crushed with dank hands his burning lids as though he would have robbed the very brain of sight and driven the eyeballs back into their cave.
0	I’m going to look in at the Bachelors’ Ball to-night, unless I find something better to do.
0	I say Alexandria, not merely because it was there that the Greek spirit became most self-conscious, and indeed ultimately expired in scepticism and theology, but because it was to that city, and not to Athens, that Rome turned for her models, and it was through the survival, such as it was, of the Latin language that culture lived at all.
0	What reason have you for saying that?
0	A cold current of air passed them, and the light shot up for a moment in a flame of murky orange.
0	She was a wonderful Amazon, and had once raced old Lord Bilton on her pony twice round the park, winning by a length and a half, just in front of the Achilles statue, to the huge delight of the young Duke of Cheshire, who proposed for her on the spot, and was sent back to Eton that very night by his guardians, in floods of tears.
0	Am I not, Mr. Worthing?
0	At noon the yellow lions come down to the water’s edge to drink.
0	"A long engagement exhausts them, but they are capital at a steeplechase.
0	I have only had one husband as yet.
0	There is a wind blowing.
0	_Table L. with cigar and cigarette box.
0	I sat down under the shade of a tamarisk tree to shelter myself from the sun.
0	Herodias smiles and fans herself.
0	"Well, I hope he won't stick pins into you, Duchess," laughed Dorian.
0	I don’t know how he made his money, originally.
0	Was it to become a monstrous and loathsome thing, to be hidden away in a locked room, to be shut out from the sunlight that had so often touched to brighter gold the waving wonder of its hair?
0	Well, that is no business of yours, is it, Cecil?
0	Such, at least, was the story that men whispered to each other.
0	He was conscious--and the thought brought a gleam of pleasure into his brown agate eyes--that it was through certain words of his, musical words said with musical utterance, that Dorian Gray's soul had turned to this white girl and bowed in worship before her.
0	Oh, don’t say that, Lady Stutfield.
0	And those are the views of the two ladies who are known to have the most admirable husbands in London.
0	Ruskin put his criticism into imaginative prose, and is superb in his changes and contradictions; and Browning put his into blank verse and made painter and poet yield us their secret; and M. Renan uses dialogue, and Mr. Pater fiction, and Rossetti translated into sonnet-music the colour of Giorgione and the design of Ingres, and his own design and colour also, feeling, with the instinct of one who had many modes of utterance; that the ultimate art is literature, and the finest and fullest medium that of words.
0	It is enough to drive one perfectly frantic.
0	answered the Ghost; "you have your navy and your manners."
0	The voyage seems to have been most distasteful to him, and in a letter written to a friend he spoke bitterly about the ignominy of ‘the companion of poets and artists’ being compelled to associate with ‘country bumpkins.’  The phrase that he applies to his companions need not surprise us.
0	I reminded him that I was a friend of yours, and asked him what he meant.
0	It has ‘Margaret’ on it.
0	Leave him and come with me.
0	‘What is it?’ she cried.
0	A sailor's existence was dreadful.
0	Let me know that no eavesdropper has heard my life’s secret.
0	There is not a single wretched man in this wretched place along with me who does not stand in symbolic relation to the very secret of life.
0	I thought you would be.
0	Morning-room at the Manor House.
0	If he did anything shameful, I will not go away with him.
0	"You would hardly care for such an arrangement, Basil," cried Lord Henry, laughing.
0	He saw what our English school could gain from a study of Greek models, and never wearies of pointing out to the young student the artistic possibilities that lie dormant in Hellenic marbles and Hellenic methods of work.
0	Mother, you must watch over her."
0	Sadder even than usual was the King, for as he looked at the Infanta bowing with childish gravity to the assembling counters, or laughing behind her fan at the grim Duchess of Albuquerque who always accompanied her, he thought of the young Queen, her mother, who but a short time before—so it seemed to him—had come from the gay country of France, and had withered away in the sombre splendour of the Spanish court, dying just six months after the birth of her child, and before she had seen the almonds blossom twice in the orchard, or plucked the second year’s fruit from the old gnarled fig-tree that stood in the centre of the now grass-grown courtyard.
0	The world is made by the singer for the dreamer.
0	I think you can guess what it is.
0	They had been great friends once, five years before--almost inseparable, indeed.
0	Every woman is a rebel, and usually in wild revolt against herself.
0	Goethe saw it, and the immediate debt that we owe to Goethe is greater than the debt we owe to any man since Greek days.
0	His sins, if there are such things as sins, are borrowed.
0	And yet it will have everything, and whatever one takes from it, it will still have, so rich will it be.
0	Oh, you mustn’t dream of such a thing.
0	They won't have her in this place now."
0	But the little Dwarf knew nothing of all this.
0	It will be like having a meat-tea, or reading an English novel.
0	Pursuit would have been only polite.
0	The security of society will not depend, as it does now, on the state of the weather.
0	The binding was of citron-green leather, with a design of gilt trellis-work and dotted pomegranates.
0	Yes, the objective form is the most subjective in matter.
0	Or, rather, let me try not to think."
0	They have burned my forehead.
0	You can't go anywhere without meeting clever people.
0	He was like a common gardener walking with a rose.
0	Out of my nature has come wild despair; an abandonment to grief that was piteous even to look at; terrible and impotent rage; bitterness and scorn; anguish that wept aloud; misery that could find no voice; sorrow that was dumb.
0	I hated, I despised her.
0	Not width but intensity is the true aim of modern art.
0	No form of compulsion must be exercised over him.
0	His mother was a Devereux, Lady Margaret Devereux.
0	A man whose desire is to be something separate from himself, to be a member of Parliament, or a successful grocer, or a prominent solicitor, or a judge, or something equally tedious, invariably succeeds in being what he wants to be.
0	I thought I had no heart.
0	And who does not feel that the chief glory of Piranesi’s book on Vases is that it gave Keats the suggestion for his ‘Ode on a Grecian Urn’?
0	You and I are what we are, and will be what we will be.
0	_She has a cloak of black satin_, _lined with dead rose-leaf silk_.]
0	She used to be confoundedly fond of money.
0	She is coming to lunch on Thursday, won’t you come too?
0	"Yes; she is a peacock in everything but beauty," said Lord Henry, pulling the daisy to bits with his long nervous fingers.
0	No; I am going to pass entirely out of your two lives.
0	Algy, kindly turn your back.
0	But what if, by some fate or deadlier chance, eyes other than his spied behind and saw the horrible change?
0	Why, at this moment you are more dear to him than ever, _dear_ though you have _been_, and oh!
0	I want to get something out of you."
0	What do you want him to be then, dear?
0	She can work miracles at her will, and when she calls monsters from the deep they come.
0	I’m here to save you, if I can.
0	he was in his own chamber, and through the window he saw the great honey-coloured moon hanging in the dusky air.
0	Lady Bracknell and Miss Fairfax.
0	Will he let me go away at all?
0	I took pleasure where it pleased me, and passed on.
0	He felt that the time had really come for making his choice.
0	You know it is true.
0	High thoughts and high emotions are by their very existence isolated.
0	What the paradox was to me in the sphere of thought, perversity became to me in the sphere of passion.
0	An exclamation of horror broke from the painter's lips as he saw in the dim light the hideous face on the canvas grinning at him.
0	It is to take away the bitterness out of your life, to take away the shadow that lies on your name, that this marriage must take place.
0	From the latter tragedy you saved him.
0	The rich can’t do everything, after all.
0	Oh, I don't care about Jack.
0	Lord Henry shrugged his shoulders.
0	You are not thinking of that wretched woman who came here last night?
0	Like the service you wished to render my husband last night, I suppose.
0	Her eyes are coloured with stibium, and her nostrils are shaped like the wings of a swallow.
0	I will tell you, and perhaps I can tell you best by definite example.
0	"I am all expectation, Basil," continued his companion, glancing at him.
0	I tell you, you are afraid of him.
0	I am afraid in England we have too many artificial social barriers.
0	I would have publicly disgraced her in my own house.
0	It is a humiliating confession, but we are all of us made out of the same stuff.
0	Robert and I are dining at home by ourselves to-night, and I don’t think I shall go anywhere afterwards.
0	It was carved out of ivory, and in stature was twice the stature of a man.
0	When the moon rose he flew back to the Happy Prince.
0	"Royalties may not abdicate," fell as a warning from pretty lips.
0	"Culture and corruption," echoed Dorian.
0	I am so glad I've seen him."
0	He is in every place, my lord, but it is hard to find Him.
0	Do you not hear it?
0	I had some crumpets with Lady Harbury, who seems to me to be living entirely for pleasure now.
0	How beautiful you look to-night, Gertrude!
0	The Prince may be cultivated.
0	To him, man was a being with myriad lives and myriad sensations, a complex multiform creature that bore within itself strange legacies of thought and passion, and whose very flesh was tainted with the monstrous maladies of the dead.
0	The public are quite right in their attitude.
0	When the blood crept from its face, and left behind a pallid mask of chalk with leaden eyes, he would keep the glamour of boyhood.
0	I often think it such a pity he never wrote his memoirs.
0	You are the prettiest girl I ever saw.
0	The Flowers were quite indignant at his daring to intrude into their beautiful home, and when they saw him capering up and down the walks, and waving his arms above his head in such a ridiculous manner, they could not restrain their feelings any longer.
0	The world through which the Academic philosopher becomes ‘the spectator of all time and of all existence’ is not really an ideal world, but simply a world of abstract ideas.
0	It would be quite useless.
0	Lord Henry shrugged his shoulders.
0	Most of our modern portrait painters are doomed to absolute oblivion.
0	We, in fact, have made writing a definite mode of composition, and have treated it as a form of elaborate design.
0	Besides, I have arrived at the romantic stage.
0	It was not I who made him see it.
0	How charmingly you said it!
0	When Dorian had finished the letter, he felt that he had been forgiven.
0	Oh, I can’t believe it!
0	Man can believe the impossible, but man can never believe the improbable.
0	_Door at back leading on to                                 terrace_.
0	To me it is so much so that at the close of each meal I carefully eat whatever crumbs may be left on my tin plate, or have fallen on the rough towel that one uses as a cloth so as not to soil one's table; and I do so not from hunger--I get now quite sufficient food--but simply in order that nothing should be wasted of what is given to me.
0	"And, now, where shall we carry it to, Mr.
0	So perhaps whatever beauty of life still remains to me is contained in some moment of surrender, abasement, and humiliation.
0	More than half of modern culture depends on what one shouldn't read.
0	Sir John is her fourth!
0	All bad art comes from returning to Life and Nature, and elevating them into ideals.
0	It is so difficult for them to have sympathy with thought.
0	In fact the two things rarely go together.
0	Why should she not forgive?
0	You, as a good Tory, must not underrate them.
0	However, I know people discuss everything very freely nowadays.
0	"I think you are wrong, Basil, but I won't argue with you.
0	In the case of the drama, things are a little better: the theatre-going public like the obvious, it is true, but they do not like the tedious; and burlesque and farcical comedy, the two most popular forms, are distinct forms of art.
0	There is nothing in the world that can mar my happiness.
0	And the Infanta stamped her foot, and called out to her uncle, who was walking on the terrace with the Chamberlain, reading some despatches that had just arrived from Mexico, where the Holy Office had recently been established.
0	He wouldn’t let me know any of his men friends, except those who were over seventy, like poor Lord Ashton: who afterwards, by the way, was brought into the Divorce Court.
0	You are not yourself to-night."
0	He was evidently a man of some wealth.
0	The windows yielded easily--their bolts were old.
0	My dear Rachel, you have had him to yourself for over twenty years.
0	There was something in its expression that filled him with disgust and loathing.
0	You laugh, but I tell you she has genius.
0	_The firmly-chiselled mouth and chin contrast strikingly with the romantic expression in the deep-set eyes_.
0	Don't go away from me.
0	Was it young Herbert's life that he sometimes led?
0	He would be able to follow his mind into its secret places.
0	"In this fog, my dear Basil?
0	But that can't be helped.
0	I thought there was something.
0	The gods of my country are very fond of blood.
0	They contained nothing concerning this matter.
0	The interpreter of the caravan answered that we had come from the island of Syria with much merchandise.
0	There is nothing, nothing like the beauty of home-life, is there?
0	Therefore ask not this thing of me.
0	Thou art as one who in time of death pours water into a broken vessel.
0	It was bright, and glistened.
0	I am always saying what I shouldn’t say.
0	Come and see me some afternoon in Curzon Street.
0	It was wrought out of red bronze, and carved with sea-dragons and dragons that have wings.
0	Their white keynote, with its variations in lilac, was an era in colour.
0	I observe that admirers of Dr. Strauss are a little mortified that the great master should have found an occasion for composition in a play which they long ago consigned to oblivion and the shambles of Aubrey Beardsley.
0	We know nothing of that, Princess.
0	There be widows who sit in purple, and widows who sit in rags.
0	Yes: it is the imagination; and the imagination is the result of heredity.
0	When that lady calls, tell her that I am not expected home this evening.
0	You have never looked more charming than you do to-night.
0	What about the young Duke of Perth?
0	Since his coming the history of each separate individual is, or can be made, the history of the world.
0	For the domain of the painter is, as I suggested before, widely different from that of the poet.
0	Or was it indifferent to results?
0	"You must not say anything against him.
0	There is nothing in the world so black as thy hair.... Let me touch thy hair.
0	I beg you not to go."
0	Now and then she stopped and peered back.
0	“How do you know?” said the Mathematical Master, “you have never seen one.” “Ah!
0	Mr. W. Carew Hazlitt, his latest biographer, to whom I am indebted for many of the facts contained in this memoir, and whose little book is, indeed, quite invaluable in its way, is of opinion that his love of art and nature was a mere pretence and assumption, and others have denied to him all literary power.
0	All Americans do dress well.
0	* * * * *                  Tavistock Street, Covent Garden, London                   [Picture: Decorative graphic of bird]
0	Art is always more abstract than we fancy.
0	In matters of art, it is one’s last mood.
0	"I fancy that the boy will be well off.
0	Does that include the Puritan women?
0	Then he seized Dorian Gray and dragged him from the archway.
0	Let me be as they are, I beseech thee, for their days are as the days of flowers.
0	Pour water on my hands.
0	The industry necessary for the making money is also very demoralising.
0	I have a special message for the dear Duchess.
0	Are you going to tell me now that all thought is, in its essence, dangerous?
0	She is monstrous, thy daughter, she is altogether monstrous.
0	Certainly, it is never trammelled by any shackles of verisimilitude.
0	He would allow no claim whatsoever to be made on personality.
0	His mere presence seemed to recall to them the memory of the innocence that they had tarnished.
0	Dorian Gray changed his seat and went and sat by Lord Henry.
0	Innocent blood had been spilled.
0	Its supports were of silver gilt, beautifully chased, and profusely set with enamelled and jewelled medallions.
0	Then it is lucky you are not going to kiss her!
0	She is just as sympathetic about one thing as she is about another.
0	I quite agree with you, father.
0	"I was at the opera.
0	I don’t wish to leave my mother.
0	they will come to you,’ said the Miller, ‘but you must take more pains.
0	[_Pulling himself together for a great effort_, _and showing the philosopher that underlies the dandy_.]
0	She raised her hand up to heaven.
0	What a very stupid thing to do!’ “‘Well, the fact is,’ said Hans, ‘that I was obliged to.
0	And the black waves came hurrying to the shore, bearing with them a burden that was whiter than silver.
0	The dust is given to one, and the ashes to another, and the soul is out of their reach.
0	I command thee to dance, Salomé.
0	The moment he seeks to exercise authority he becomes the avowed enemy of Art and of himself.
0	Oh, Dorian, Dorian, you understand now what it signifies?
0	I am not sure, Miss Worsley, that foreigners like yourself should cultivate likes or dislikes about the people they are invited to meet.
0	He was prisoned in thought.
0	Once every month the King, wrapped in a dark cloak and with a muffled lantern in his hand, went in and knelt by her side calling out, ‘_Mi reina_!
0	Uncle Jack, you are not going to refuse your own brother's hand?
0	It is apt to become morbid.
0	‘He pointed with his finger at the scimitar, and the Nubian seized it, and rushing forward struck at me with great violence.
0	After that, I hope to be able to recreate my creative faculty.
0	cried the Court; and the little Princess laughed with pleasure.
0	It has reference to wrong, unhealthy, unjust surroundings.
0	Through the clouds of muslin she is smiling like a little princess.
0	[Miss Prism starts in involuntary indignation.]
0	As he drove back to his own house, he was conscious that the sense of terror he thought he had strangled had come back to him.
0	It is very good for you to be in the way, and to know what people say of you behind your back.
0	[_Puts what he has written into an envelope_, _which he then carefully closes_.]
0	I don't think I could break it off now that I have actually met you.
0	Metaphysics do not satisfy our temperaments, and religious ecstasy is out of date.
0	"I should like to come to the theatre with you, Lord Henry," said the lad.
0	I will not stay here.
0	Yet in the Prince there is danger.
0	They are all men of some intellectual power, and consequently they all appreciate me.
0	Yes:  that is what it was like."
0	Like them, he can find his motives everywhere.
0	However, you must not think that I am too despondent about the artistic future either of America or of our own country.
0	Shall I read it to you?
0	Let nothing be lost upon you.
0	The Infanta had never before seen this wonderful ceremony which takes place every year at Maytime in front of the high altar of the Virgin, and in her honour; and indeed none of the royal family of Spain had entered the great cathedral of Saragossa since a mad priest, supposed by many to have been in the pay of Elizabeth of England, had tried to administer a poisoned wafer to the Prince of the Asturias.
0	I have been wildly, madly adored.
0	Its mere memory had marred many moments of joy.
0	The present is what man ought not to be.
0	You have not been fine.
0	You have educated him to be your judge if he ever finds you out.
0	He knew that the senses, no less than the soul, have their spiritual mysteries to reveal.
0	And I know why you are here.
0	No office is too mean, no care too lowly for the thing we women love—and oh!
0	But then he was so very particular.
0	[_Starts_, _and looks at the servant with a puzzled expression in her face_.]
0	The singer or the player on lute and viol is the critic of music.
0	I nearly always speak at the same time as other people.
0	All lives, save loveless lives, true Love should pardon.
0	The pomegranate-flowers that blossom in the gardens of Tyre, and are redder than roses, are not so red.
0	Lady Dumbleton is an instance in point.
0	Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Bowden.
0	I am afraid of the women.
0	"You are quite right to do that," he murmured.
0	_The note of his manner is that of perfect distinction_, _with a slight touch of pride_.
0	Sometimes he would etch in thin vermilion lines upon a ground of white the languid bridegroom and his bride, with Eros hovering round them—an Eros like one of Donatello’s angels, a little laughing thing with gilded or with azure wings.
0	It's nigh on eighteen years since I met him.
0	"I think I shall join you at the opera, Harry.
0	Usually because I come in at ten minutes to nine and tell her that I must be dressed by half-past eight."
0	His lordship did not come in till five o’clock.
0	In fact, it was only yesterday that I heard the farmer’s wife say to her mother that she could not get a wink of sleep at night on account of us.
0	She couldn’t tell the story without explaining that she objected to being kissed, could she?
0	Let us go away to the country.
0	Why do you call Lord Goring good-for-nothing?
0	I hear her hair has turned quite gold from grief.
0	He did not know what to do, or what to think.
0	I was very young at the time.
0	Why do you let her influence you?
0	I thank heaven poor Lord Radley died without knowing that I betrayed him.
0	It has debarred one part of the community from being individual by starving them.
0	But they are briefed by the prosaic, and are not ashamed to appeal to precedent.
0	I never knew of this woman’s existence till half an hour ago.
0	The jug had evidently been once filled with water, as it was covered inside with green mould.
0	In others, drunkards brawled and screamed.
0	So you see what difficulties it would involve.
0	Nor could he anywhere find the piece of white gold of which the Magician had spoken, though he sought for it from morn to noon, and from noon to sunset.
0	He was determined not to sleep another night at Selby Royal.
0	It had been like conscience to him.
0	Man is least himself when he talks in his own person.
0	You look perfectly ridiculous in them.
0	I hear she is frightfully jealous of him.
0	Cecily, you will read your Political Economy in my absence.
0	_He is the first well-dressed philosopher in the history of thought_.]
0	"I hope he will fall into proper hands," continued the old man.
0	_Then she turns round and looks at her husband_.
0	[_Tears it and throws it into the fire_.]
0	May I ask by what arguments you made the boy who wrote this letter, this beautiful, passionate letter, believe that you should not marry his father, the father of your own child?
0	I’ll wait for a short time, thanks.
0	I am glad he is not, after all--though I wish you chaps would not squabble over the picture.
0	‘Take the case of the English drama.
0	about the clever people, of course.
0	What could you know of such things?
0	No spectator of art needs a more perfect mood of receptivity than the spectator of a play.
0	What, then, is the result?
0	The fact is, we all scramble and jostle so much nowadays that I wonder we have anything at all left on us at the end of an evening.
0	Then he straightened himself up, and walked over to the fire-place, and stood there, looking at the burning logs with their frostlike ashes and their throbbing cores of flame.
0	It had more expression than I had ever heard from it before."
0	It would serve as a tale to tell Basil some day.
0	I wanted to interest him in this Argentine Canal scheme, of which I dare say you have heard.
0	"But what world says that?"
0	As I intend it to be a visit of condolence, I shan’t stay long.
0	And at last he spoke to her, and his voice was hard and bitter.
0	To them she gave a language different from that of actual use, a language full of resonant music and sweet rhythm, made stately by solemn cadence, or made delicate by fanciful rhyme, jewelled with wonderful words, and enriched with lofty diction.
0	The other, to like it rationally.
0	I am glad I am living in a century when such wonders happen.
0	And the message of Christ to man was simply ‘Be thyself.’  That is the secret of Christ.
0	Of the three qualifications you mentioned, two, sincerity and fairness, were, if not actually moral, at least on the borderland of morals, and the first condition of criticism is that the critic should be able to recognise that the sphere of Art and the sphere of Ethics are absolutely distinct and separate.
0	The man touched his hat, glanced for a moment at Lord Henry in a hesitating manner, and then produced a letter, which he handed to his master.
0	And the Star-Child had pity on it, and released it, and said to it, ‘I am myself but a slave, yet may I give thee thy freedom.’ And the Hare answered him, and said: ‘Surely thou hast given me freedom, and what shall I give thee in return?’ And the Star-Child said to it, ‘I am seeking for a piece of white gold, nor can I anywhere find it, and if I bring it not to my master he will beat me.’ ‘Come thou with me,’ said the Hare, ‘and I will lead thee to it, for I know where it is hidden, and for what purpose.’ So the Star-Child went with the Hare, and lo!
0	He saw a most wonderful sight.
0	And now I must go and see Gertrude.
0	‘And the priest besought me, saying, “Let my lord heal his servant, and I will show him the god.” ‘So I breathed with my breath upon his eyes, and the sight came back to them, and he trembled again, and led me into the third chamber, and lo!
0	The home seems to me to be the proper sphere for the man.
0	The individual is to make what is beautiful.
0	He saw himself in fancy standing at the high altar of the cathedral in the fair raiment of a King, and a smile played and lingered about his boyish lips, and lit up with a bright lustre his dark woodland eyes.
0	The growing influence of women is the one reassuring thing in our political life, Lady Caroline.
0	Oh, they’re quite out of date.
0	Modern pictures are, no doubt, delightful to look at.
0	But you said you wished me to keep early hours!
0	Yes, sir; eight bottles and a pint.
0	How do you do, Lord Caversham?
0	I will give it to you to-morrow.
0	Arthur, you loved me once.
0	She laughed at him, and there wasn't a girl in London at the time who wasn't after him.
0	“I am sure that he has not often got such a chance of improving his mind.
0	"What would you say, Harry, if I told you that I had murdered Basil?"
0	No; but it looks very well on me as a bracelet, doesn’t it?
0	So they pulled down the statue of the Happy Prince.
0	There are many things that we would throw away if we were not afraid that others might pick them up.
0	Their fat bodies swayed as they walked, and they glanced curiously at me with their yellow-lidded eyes.
0	One can always be kind to people about whom one cares nothing.
0	He is a symbol of the lives that are marred by imitation.
0	It has the eyes of a devil."
0	In a thoughtless moment I asked one of the gardeners what it was called.
0	"I should think 'The Idiot Boy', or 'Dumb but Innocent'.
0	On the mouldering citadel of Troy lies the lizard like a thing of green bronze.
0	Conversation should touch everything, but should concentrate itself on nothing.
0	[MRS. CHEVELEY _pulls the letter out_, _and hands it to him_.
0	That is all I am concerned with.
0	The obscure drama, however, had become for five years past part of the literature of Europe.
0	Gertrude, here is the draft of my letter.
0	I wish you would, sir.
0	Such a pure taste, I think.
0	You have been quite happy, you have never thought of us.
0	I am very English in all my tastes.
0	Wreaths of white mist clung like ghostly sails to the yards.
0	How sweet of you to say that, Lord Caversham!
0	[_Rushing across and catching hold of him_]  No!
0	Your transaction with Robert Chiltern may pass as a loathsome commercial transaction of a loathsome commercial age; but you seem to have forgotten that you came here to-night to talk of love, you whose lips desecrated the word love, you to whom the thing is a book closely sealed, went this afternoon to the house of one of the most noble and gentle women in the world to degrade her husband in her eyes, to try and kill her love for him, to put poison in her heart, and bitterness in her life, to break her idol, and, it may be, spoil her soul.
0	It was dank with clammy sweat.
0	You know what I have got to say to you.
0	"This," replied Dorian, moving the screen back.
0	It is to do nothing that the elect exist.
0	And Death said to her, ‘What hast thou in thy hand?’ ‘I have three grains of corn,’ she answered; ‘what is that to thee?’ ‘Give me one of them,’ cried Death, ‘to plant in my garden; only one of them, and I will go away.’ ‘I will not give thee anything,’ said Avarice, and she hid her hand in the fold of her raiment.
0	It is the book that Gautier loved, it is Baudelaire’s masterpiece.
0	He had always the look of one who had kept himself unspotted from the world.
0	Lady Caroline, I had no idea it was your brother.
0	It was not that mere physical admiration of beauty that is born of the senses and that dies when the senses tire.
0	Arthur has never understood me.
0	[_Opens it_, _sits down and reads it slowly_.
0	When he thought of her, it would be as a wonderful tragic figure sent on to the world's stage to show the supreme reality of love.
0	I ask of you the head of Jokanaan.
0	Your days are your sonnets."
0	[_Strolls to the fireplace and looks at himself in the glass_.]
0	But how tragically insecure was Cæsar!
0	Therefore, my son, think not any more of this matter, for it is a sin that may not be forgiven.
0	“He must have a truly romantic nature,” said the Catherine Wheel, “for he weeps when there is nothing at all to weep about”; and she heaved a deep sigh, and thought about the deal box.
0	The bright dawn flooded the room and swept the fantastic shadows into dusky corners, where they lay shuddering.
0	I was dazed at the prospect he held out to me, and my ambition and my desire for power were at that time boundless.
0	Want to have a serious conversation with you, sir.
0	‘There are nine gates to this city, and in front of each gate stands a bronze horse that neighs when the Bedouins come down from the mountains.
0	No, there is very little music in the name Jack, if any at all, indeed.
0	In he hopped, and laid the great ruby on the table beside the woman’s thimble.
0	What we have to see is that the details are not allowed to usurp the principal place.
0	The mellow November sun came streaming into the room.
0	Be afraid of nothing.... A new Hedonism--that is what our century wants.
0	As a man sows, so shall he reap.
0	_Sitting-room in Mrs. Arbuthnot’s House at Wrockley_.
0	But in London people are so prejudiced.
0	"I will try and do something, Dorian, if it would please you.
0	He shall not come here.
0	As soon as they had cast anchor and hauled down the sail, the negroes went into the hold and brought up a long rope-ladder, heavily weighted with lead.
0	He stayed here till eleven, and then he went away to catch his train."
0	[_Thrusting him back with outstretched hands_.]
0	One usually is, I believe.
0	Besides I have just made arrangements with Dr. Chasuble to be christened at a quarter to six under the name of Ernest.
0	The sick do not ask if the hand that smooths their pillow is pure, nor the dying care if the lips that touch their brow have known the kiss of sin.
0	He pointed out that forms and ceremonies were made for man, not man for forms and ceremonies.
0	[Algernon, who has been carefully listening, smiles to himself, and writes the address on his shirt-cuff.
0	The terrible moment, the moment that night and day, for weeks and months, she had dreaded, had come at last, and yet she felt no terror.
0	"Before God I am telling the truth," she cried.
0	I am a man now.
0	We must needs submit to everything, for God is very strong.
0	Does life repeat its tragedies?
0	It was not till the third day that he ventured to go out.
0	Ah, Ernest has a chin.
0	Transcribed from the 1910 David Nutt edition by David Price, email ccx074@pglaf.org.
0	Just take him abroad, and he’ll come back to you all right.
0	And when the scarf was taken off his eyes, the Star-Child found himself in a dungeon, that was lit by a lantern of horn.
0	Well, Mr. Kelvil, have you got through your work?
0	I didn't dare show my face at Court for a month.
0	I feel it is better to do so.
0	Had it been merely vanity that had made him do his one good deed?
0	Then do tell her I want to talk to her particularly.
0	When they go into the world, the world will disagree with them.
0	Idle merriment and triviality would be out of place in his conversation.
0	That is the one use of the idle classes in a country, and the only possible explanation of us Harfords.
0	But I’m ambitions; I want something more than that.
0	Gertrude, what you tell me may be true, but it happened many years ago.
0	He would come to you when he was devoted to others; you would have to charm him.
0	[_Takes chair and goes across L.C._]  I am quite miserable, Lady Windermere.
0	A light wind blew from the shore, and covered the deck and the great lateen sail with a fine red dust.
0	Indeed, I should be sorry to look like him.
0	The man who had been shot in the thicket was James Vane.
0	Every month as it wanes brings you nearer to something dreadful.
0	what is going to happen?
0	I'm sorry if we are a little late, Algernon, but I was obliged to call on dear Lady Harbury.
0	And how I worshipped you!
0	Are you going away, then, Mrs. Erlynne?
0	To pass from the art of a time to the time itself is the great mistake that all historians commit.
0	Go back and give me the nocturne over again.
0	However, I think anything is better than high intellectual pressure.
0	‘It only shows,’ they said, ‘what a vulgarising effect this incessant rushing and flying about has.
0	By the way, did you tell Gwendolen the truth about your being Ernest in town, and Jack in the country?
0	I am not of those who break their oaths.
0	Cecily and Gwendolen glare at each other.]
0	What on earth do you do there?
0	Flee away, for I am afraid, seeing that thy heart is closed against me by reason of the greatness of thy love.
0	The Prince and Princess were leading the dance.
0	I suppose he bored you.
0	I want the dead lovers of the world to hear our laughter and grow sad.
0	"He likes me," he answered after a pause; "I know he likes me.
0	Lord Henry sipped his champagne in a meditative manner.
0	"Yes," echoed Dorian, leaning back in his chair and looking at Lord Henry over the heavy clusters of purple-lipped irises that stood in the centre of the table, "what do you mean by good, Harry?"
0	I converted him in ten minutes.
0	One incomparable novelist we have now in England, Mr George Meredith.
0	I really must have a good stare at her.
0	Wonder why it is one’s people are always so tedious?
0	[_Makes no answer_, _but remains standing_.
0	It was a pleasure even to see him.
0	The drowsy sailor leaped to his feet as she spoke, and looked wildly round.
0	Lord Radley is sure to be furious.
0	When he cometh, the solitary places shall be glad.
0	What has become of them?
0	You answer to the name of Ernest.
0	Till I have my first wrinkle, I suppose.
0	But thou, thou wert beautiful!
0	Yes; but I don’t know why you said it to me.
0	Campbell scrawled a few lines, blotted them, and addressed an envelope to his assistant.
0	They apparently are getting remarkably rare.
0	I don't think that, as things are now, it would be of much practical value to either of us, Dr. Chasuble.
0	The young King went over to one of the weavers, and stood by him and watched him.
0	The aim of life is self-development.
0	[Merriman begins to clear table and lay cloth.
0	"American novels," answered Lord Henry, helping himself to some quail.
0	he said, when he saw me, and he took off his hat with an air of gorgeous servility.
0	There had been a madness of murder in the air.
0	Ernest, you are quite delightful, but your views are terribly unsound.
0	You know I have loved him always.
0	"I am glad you appreciate my work at last, Dorian," said the painter coldly when he had recovered from his surprise.
0	I have a theory that it is always the women who propose to us, and not we who propose to the women.
0	Well, yes, I must admit I smoke.
0	Dear Mabel, don’t talk like that.
0	All the candour of youth was there, as well as all youth's passionate purity.
0	"But I thought you had promised Basil Hallward to go and see him," answered Lord Henry.
0	I'll say he died in Paris of apoplexy.
0	“Heave a-hoy!” they shouted as each chest came up.
0	I feel like a man on a ship that is sinking.
0	It feels instinctively that manners are of more importance than morals, and, in its opinion, the highest respectability is of much less value than the possession of a good _chef_.
0	Basil was really rather dull.
0	There is nothing that you, with your extraordinary good looks, will not be able to do."
0	Why can I not see it, this bird?
0	The idea was monstrous, yet he felt afraid.
0	"I cannot sympathize with that.
0	On the floor in front of it the torn curtain was lying.
0	I was very young at the time, so I didn’t believe him, I needn’t tell you.
0	The heavy odour of incense seemed to cling about its pages and to trouble the brain.
0	for that there was no atonement; but though forgiveness was impossible, forgetfulness was possible still, and he was determined to forget, to stamp the thing out, to crush it as one would crush the adder that had stung one.
0	I thirst.... Salomé, Salomé, let us be friends.
0	Gold Stick is very complimentary.
0	It is very heartless of him, very heartless indeed.
0	You may come and look at it with me, if you care to."
0	I can’t help it .
0	Young men want to be faithful, and are not; old men want to be faithless, and cannot: that is all one can say."
0	That is how women help the world.
0	Indeed, I have always been of opinion that hard work is simply the refuge of people who have nothing whatever to do.” “Well, well,” said the Duck, who was of a very peaceable disposition, and never quarrelled with any one, “everybody has different tastes.
0	He looked down and saw the policeman going his rounds and flashing the long beam of his lantern on the doors of the silent houses.
0	Taken as a whole the man was great.
0	Something seemed to tell me that I was on the verge of a terrible crisis in my life.
0	Were his own actions merely the dreams that the dead man had not dared to realize?
0	he murmured to himself, and he walked across to the window and opened it.
0	Now, wherever you go, you charm the world.
0	Where have you been since last Thursday?
0	May I offer you some tea, Miss Fairfax?
0	The boy-burglar is simply the inevitable result of life’s imitative instinct.
0	But what I _do_ mind is that you who have loved me, you who have taught me to love you, should pass from the love that is given to the love that is bought.
0	One could not escape from them.
0	Well, to put the matter briefly, some months afterwards I was in Venice, and finding the magazine in the reading-room of the hotel, I took it up casually to see what had become of the heroine.
0	She said she had a headache.
0	He has no poppied or honeyed cakes through which to give the monster sleep or sustenance.
0	Then, suddenly, some night he would creep out of the house, go down to dreadful places near Blue Gate Fields, and stay there, day after day, until he was driven away.
0	Do what I tell you.
0	Joachim of Flora stands in the sun, and, in the sun, Aquinas recounts the story of St. Francis and Bonaventure the story of St. Dominic.
0	It is a very difficult thing to get real blood nowadays, and, as your brother began it all with his Paragon Detergent, I certainly saw no reason why I should not have your paints.
0	Never met such a Gorgon .
0	He had met her early in the spring as he was flying down the river after a big yellow moth, and had been so attracted by her slender waist that he had stopped to talk to her.
0	But what a lack of taste she showed!
0	I am only putting an imaginary case.
0	In fact, it is essentially suburban.
0	It is so in truth.
0	For a moment the Canterville ghost stood quite motionless in natural indignation; then, dashing the bottle violently upon the polished floor, he fled down the corridor, uttering hollow groans, and emitting a ghastly green light.
0	Bring me that cigarette case Mr. Worthing left in the smoking- room the last time he dined here.
0	‘Love is better,’ answered the young Fisherman, and he plunged into the deep, and the Soul went weeping away over the marshes.
0	Especially as I am not going to bed for hours.
0	It was entirely for my sake she went to Darlington’s rooms.
0	He followed a woman whom he loved.
0	MASON _then goes out with the letter_.]
0	But the Roman Candle and the Bengal Light were quite indignant, and kept saying, “Humbug!
0	What I suffered then, and still suffer, is not for pen to write or paper to record.
0	You want to know life as it really is.
0	He is very gentle, too.
0	But the bravest man amongst us is afraid of himself.
0	But, on the other hand, judging from their appearance, most of them cannot be at all expensive."
0	There they do not allow the details of the trials that take place in the divorce courts to be published for the amusement or criticism of the public.
0	Outlaws, lurking in a forest and living by the chase, are not very likely to care much about ordinances of dress.
0	The beggars wander through the cities, and eat their food with the dogs.
0	How very kind of you, Lady Chiltern!
0	And that restoration of the Temple about which they have talked so much, will anything be done?
0	"But they are so unhappy in Whitechapel," continued Lady Agatha.
0	Well, that point can be cleared up afterwards.
0	something has fallen upon the ground.
0	I forget what killed it.
0	Facts will be regarded as discreditable, Truth will be found mourning over her fetters, and Romance, with her temper of wonder, will return to the land.
0	He becomes an echo of some one else's music, an actor of a part that has not been written for him.
0	It is monstrous your intruding yourself here after your conduct last night.
0	At present, in consequence of the existence of private property, a great many people are enabled to develop a certain very limited amount of Individualism.
0	But with me and such as me it is different.
0	I should not be sorry to see you disgraced, publicly disgraced.
0	I loved you because you were marvellous, because you had genius and intellect, because you realized the dreams of great poets and gave shape and substance to the shadows of art.
0	‘This shall he my crown,’ he answered.
0	Let me in at once.
0	I have sometimes thought that the story of Homer’s blindness might be really an artistic myth, created in critical days, and serving to remind us, not merely that the great poet is always a seer, seeing less with the eyes of the body than he does with the eyes of the soul, but that he is a true singer also, building his song out of music, repeating each line over and over again to himself till he has caught the secret of its melody, chaunting in darkness the words that are winged with light.
0	[The two girls move towards each other and put their arms round each other's waists as if for protection.]
0	From two o'clock till half-past two on that day I had to stand on the centre platform of Clapham Junction in convict dress, and handcuffed, for the world to look at.
0	We fought with the Magadae who are born old, and grow younger and younger every year, and die when they are little children; and with the Laktroi who say that they are the sons of tigers, and paint themselves yellow and black; and with the Aurantes who bury their dead on the tops of trees, and themselves live in dark caverns lest the Sun, who is their god, should slay them; and with the Krimnians who worship a crocodile, and give it earrings of green glass, and feed it with butter and fresh fowls; and with the Agazonbae, who are dog-faced; and with the Sibans, who have horses’ feet, and run more swiftly than horses.
0	I have a sandwich in my case.
0	She is leaving the table!
0	After this he was not seen again on any nocturnal expedition.
0	Who would match the measures of _Comus_ with the measures of _Samson Agonistes_, or of _Paradise Lost_ or _Regained_?
0	And I will stay here now.
0	And as for him who for love’s sake forsook God, and so lieth here with his leman slain by God’s judgment, take up his body and the body of his leman, and bury them in the corner of the Field of the Fullers, and set no mark above them, nor sign of any kind, that none may know the place of their resting.
0	Except from you, dear Archdeacon, when you are in your nice pulpit.
0	They have their dreary vices, and their drearier virtues.
0	You are talking of Mrs. Erlynne, I suppose?
0	You talk as if you were a man of experience.
0	Is it a boy or a girl?
0	After Virginia came the twins, who were usually called "The Star and Stripes," as they were always getting swished.
0	His own nature had revolted against the excess of anguish that had sought to maim and mar the perfection of its calm.
0	Uncle Jack won't be back till Monday afternoon.
0	I make a great difference between people.
0	A good cook does wonders, and that I know you have.
0	Do not stay here, Princess.
0	Carlington was mad after her.
0	But one needn’t know them.
0	One of them drew aside the captain of the guard, and in a low voice whispered to him.
0	For either     victim the high groves and forest dells murmur; the flowers exhale     sad perfume from their buds; the nightingale mourns on the craggy     lands, and the swallow in the long-winding vales; ‘the satyrs, too,     and fauns dark-veiled groan,’ and the fountain nymphs within the wood     melt into tearful waters.
0	And the little page opened his big blue eyes in wonder, and said smiling to him, ‘My lord, I see thy robe and thy sceptre, but where is thy crown?’ And the young King plucked a spray of wild briar that was climbing over the balcony, and bent it, and made a circlet of it, and set it on his own head.
0	She has everything we men have lost.
0	And while the costumes were true to the smallest points of colour and design, yet the details were not assigned that abnormal importance which they must necessarily be given in a piecemeal lecture, but were subordinated to the rules of lofty composition and the unity of artistic effect.
0	Like most artificial people, he had a great love of nature.
0	They took their seats amidst a crowd of watchers.
0	Well then, setting aside mercenary people, who, of course, are dreadful, do you think seriously that women who have committed what the world calls a fault should never be forgiven?
0	You thought that letter had been destroyed.
0	It is my dishonour that has made you so dear to me.
0	The pulse and passion of youth were in him, but he was becoming self-conscious.
0	There was never a time when Criticism was more needed than it is now.
0	In old days men had the rack.
0	I am sorry I have.
0	Our husbands never appreciate anything in us.
0	You know how a voice can stir one.
0	"I was terribly cruel to her.
0	It makes your eyes lovelier.
0	Soul after soul makes us share in some repentance or some joy.
0	MRS. MARCHMONT _and_ LADY BASILDON, _two very pretty women_, _are seated together on a Louis Seize sofa_.
0	He has said nothing against you.
0	Whether what you have told me is true or not true doesn't concern me.
0	He tried to press on, but something smooth and hard stopped him.
0	A week later, I am transferred here.
0	"You are glad you have met me, Mr. Gray," said Lord Henry, looking at him.
0	After a little time he heard steps in the passage and the chain being unhooked.
0	You women live by your emotions and for them.
0	little boy,” said the Tree, and it bent its branches down as low as it could; but the boy was too tiny.
0	I wish I had never laid eyes upon you!
0	This was his courtship, and it lasted all through the summer.
0	He was going to rip up the canvas.
0	These he put on, and in his hand he took his rude shepherd’s staff.
0	My dear Mr. Worthing, as Miss Cardew states positively that she cannot wait till she is thirty-five--a remark which I am bound to say seems to me to show a somewhat impatient nature--I would beg of you to reconsider your decision.
0	I hope Lady Caversham is quite well?
0	Heart is not in you.
0	He has looked in all of them and on the terrace as well.
0	Yet he was not really reckless, at any rate in his relations to society.
0	I can quite understand your objection to art being treated as a mirror.
0	Nevertheless let us enter in.’  So they entered in and passed through the streets, and as they passed through the Street of the Jewellers the young Fisherman saw a fair silver cup set forth in a booth.
0	When we are happy, we are always good, but when we are good, we are not always happy."
0	Under Individualism people will be quite natural and absolutely unselfish, and will know the meanings of the words, and realise them in their free, beautiful lives.
0	That is the only thing for her to do.
0	Then she’s all right, dear boy.
0	They are merely what ordinary, respectable, commonplace people would be if they had not got enough to eat.
0	It has blinded its eyes, and stopped its ears.
0	[LORD AUGUSTUS _looks round indignantly_.]
0	So, at least, I am always told at the club by people who are bald enough to know better.
0	This prophet talks like a drunken man ... but I cannot suffer the sound of his voice.
0	I dare say it will be better after lunch, when we get to new ground."
0	The beautiful sterile emotions that art excites in us are hateful in its eyes, and so completely are people dominated by the tyranny of this dreadful social ideal that they are always coming shamelessly up to one at Private Views and other places that are open to the general public, and saying in a loud stentorian voice, ‘What are you doing?’ whereas ‘What are you thinking?’ is the only question that any single civilised being should ever be allowed to whisper to another.
0	The situation had not been gradually led up to.
0	But who had done it?
0	But I like you to be serious.
0	But my experience is that as soon as people are old enough to know better, they don’t know anything at all.
0	A hundred and thirty thousand pounds!
0	"No; I don't think so."
0	And a very sensible remark for Mrs. Cheveley to make, too.
0	[_They take away the body._] It is cold here.
0	Princess, I beseech thee to go within.
0	Action is limited and relative.
0	Indeed, he was highly connected."
0	The purple spilled from the cup she was holding.
0	I thought it was you, or rather your fur coat, as you passed me.
0	I don’t remember my father; he died years ago.
0	"Was there anything found on him?"
0	"Don't look so angry, Basil.
0	How had she played that dreadful last scene?
0	Victor might have read it.
0	Plate after plate went away untasted.
0	Then the question had better be cleared up at once.
0	How then can women have so much power as you say they have?
0	Do you like him going away with Lord Illingworth?
0	There the satinwood book-case filled with his dog-eared schoolbooks.
0	[_Crossing L.C._]  How do you do, Lord Darlington?
0	They don't interest me any more."
0	And I have come all the way from Vienna in order that you should thoroughly understand me.
0	What should it say, sir?
0	You might stop and listen to some of them.
0	The solid stolid British intellect lies in the desert sands like the Sphinx in Flaubert’s marvellous tale, and fantasy, _La Chimère_, dances round it, and calls to it with her false, flute-toned voice.
0	Others filled me with terror.
0	The point, however, which I wish to emphasise is, not that Shakespeare appreciated the value of lovely costumes in adding picturesqueness to poetry, but that he saw how important costume is as a means of producing certain dramatic effects.
0	I will not go back.
0	To arrive at what one really believes, one must speak through lips different from one’s own.
0	I must say to myself that I ruined myself, and that nobody great or small can be ruined except by his own hand.
0	The ticking of the clock on the mantelpiece seemed to him to be dividing time into separate atoms of agony, each of which was too terrible to be borne.
0	You don’t realise what you’re doing.
0	Perhaps he had read it and had begun to suspect something.
0	The duchess stood motionless in horror.
0	"I should have objected very strongly this morning, Lord Henry."
0	He seemed to think it a distinction."
0	You forget, Rachel, it was you who left me.
0	Well, surely your religion, the religion that you taught me when I was a boy, mother, must tell you that I am right.
0	_As the scene progresses he paces nervously up and down the room_.]
0	However, they did not seem to have much effect.
0	But you must lend me your lantern, as the night is so dark that I am afraid I might fall into the ditch.’ “‘I am very sorry,’ answered the Miller, ‘but it is my new lantern, and it would be a great loss to me if anything happened to it.’ “‘Well, never mind, I will do without it,’ cried little Hans, and he took down his great fur coat, and his warm scarlet cap, and tied a muffler round his throat, and started off.
0	Surely thou art evil.’ But his Soul answered him, ‘Be at peace, be at peace.’ ‘Nay,’ cried the young Fisherman, ‘I may not be at peace, for all that thou hast made me to do I hate.
0	There are a great many things you haven’t got in America, I am told, Miss Worsley.
0	But on the other hand, no one is more ready than I am to acknowledge that it is better to be good than to be ugly."
0	Indeed, they had been quite distressed at hearing of Virginia's disappearance, as they were very grateful to Mr. Otis for having allowed them to camp in his park, and four of their number had stayed behind to help in the search.
0	[Pulling off his gloves_._]  When one is in town one amuses oneself.
0	There is a dreadful draught here.
0	What am I to say to you?
0	She stepped back a few paces and her lips seemed to tremble.
0	It did not kill him.
0	And when Humanity lands there, it looks out, and, seeing a better country, sets sail.
0	[_With a little toss of the head_.]
0	Again when Shakespeare treats of the history of England from the fourteenth to the sixteenth centuries, it is wonderful how careful he is to have his facts perfectly right—indeed he follows Holinshed with curious fidelity.
0	Of course I know that to ask alms on the highway is not to be my lot, and that if ever I lie in the cool grass at night-time it will be to write sonnets to the moon.
0	The surface seemed to be quite undisturbed and as he had left it.
0	Ah, that is in the family, dear, that is in the family.
0	Besides, the stuff is better."
0	I grew afraid and turned to quit the room.
0	He made no sign of recognition and went on quickly in the direction of his own house.
0	But is Criticism really a creative art?
0	There the grass grows long and deep, there are the great white stars of the hemlock flower, there the nightingale sings all night long.
0	Rachel, I want my son.
0	We don’t admit anybody who is of the usual age.
0	Of course to one so modern as I am, 'Enfant de mon siecle,' merely to look at the world will be always lovely.
0	You came--oh, my beautiful love!--and you freed my soul from prison.
0	Yes, he has told me all about poor Mr. Bunbury, and his terrible state of health.
0	Some of their arrangements and harmonies serve to remind one of the unapproachable beauty of Gautier’s immortal _Symphonie en Blanc Majeur_, that flawless masterpiece of colour and music which may have suggested the type as well as the titles of many of their best pictures.
0	"Just like, I should fancy, and very depressing.
0	To please me you are ready to face this fearful ordeal?
0	She told me that Becky was an invention, but that the idea of the character had been partly suggested by a governess who lived in the neighbourhood of Kensington Square, and was the companion of a very selfish and rich old woman.
0	Cecily, who addresses me as her uncle from motives of respect that you could not possibly appreciate, lives at my place in the country under the charge of her admirable governess, Miss Prism.
0	What about Adrian Singleton and his dreadful end?
0	It has been stated that under despotisms artists have produced lovely work.
0	What we like is to be a man’s last romance.
0	For the dresses of one age do not artistically harmonise with the dresses of another: and, as far as dramatic value goes, to confuse the costumes is to confuse the play.
0	Oh, merely by something in the expression of your face as you came in.
0	There is much virtue in that If, as Touchstone would say.
0	‘Pretty boy, pretty boy,’ she muttered, ‘that is a terrible thing to do.’ He tossed his brown curls and laughed.
0	Who told you I intended to do so?
0	A laughing Narcissus in green bronze held a polished mirror above its head.
0	what a cynic you are!"
0	Charles Lamb speaks of ‘kind, light-hearted Wainewright,’ whose prose is ‘capital.’  We hear of him entertaining Macready, John Forster, Maginn, Talfourd, Sir Wentworth Dilke, the poet John Clare, and others, at _a petit-dîner_.
0	Seven yellows were woven into his robe, and his frizzed hair was stained with antimony.
0	And they are not an old family.
0	It was true that as one watched life in its curious crucible of pain and pleasure, one could not wear over one's face a mask of glass, nor keep the sulphurous fumes from troubling the brain and making the imagination turbid with monstrous fancies and misshapen dreams.
0	And he came in swiftly, and placed the child in her arms, and she kissed it, and laid it in a little bed where the youngest of their own children was lying.
0	It is exactly because Hecuba is nothing to us that her sorrows are such an admirable motive for a tragedy.
0	Mabel, Mrs. Cheveley wishes to know you.
0	And, as for what is called improving conversation, that is merely the foolish method by which the still more foolish philanthropist feebly tries to disarm the just rancour of the criminal classes.
0	Yet, after all, what did it matter to him?
0	Pearls and pomegranates cannot buy it, nor is it set forth in the marketplace.
0	Well, she wore far too much rouge last night, and not quite enough clothes.
0	But men are the slaves of words.
0	For who is the true critic but he who bears within himself the dreams, and ideas, and feelings of myriad generations, and to whom no form of thought is alien, no emotional impulse obscure?
0	It is only by realising what I am that I have found comfort of any kind.
0	The meaning of the word is so simple that they are afraid of using it.
0	In one of the top-windows stood a lamp.
0	The nineteenth century is a turning point in history, simply on account of the work of two men, Darwin and Renan, the one the critic of the Book of Nature, the other the critic of the books of God.
0	He felt as if a hand of ice had been laid upon his heart.
0	“How very silly of him not to stay here!” said the Rocket.
0	Indeed, so far from its being true that the artist is the best judge of art, a really great artist can never judge of other people’s work at all, and can hardly, in fact, judge of his own.
0	We sicken with the same maladies as the poets, and the singer lends us his pain.
0	Wild tears of anguish break from us, and we bow our forehead to the ground, for we know that we have sinned.
0	Taking some one else's admirer when one loses one's own.
0	The Tetrarch begins to climb the staircase._] Ah!
0	[Cuts a very large slice of cake, and puts it on the tray.]
0	It was by a mere accident that he was discovered.
0	You will be the pattern secretary, Gerald.
0	He knocked at my door this morning, didn’t he?
0	For a moment a hideous sense of humiliation came over the woman.
0	When I told them what I had done, each of them gave me a god and prayed me to leave them.
0	Her blood, also, stirred within him.
0	Hour by hour, and week by week, the thing upon the canvas was growing old.
0	Kindly turn round, sweet child.
0	So I don't think your guardian's consent is, after all, a matter of any importance.
0	You hear what your daughter says.
0	I have got to make everything that has happened to me good for me.
0	The little Duke of Cheshire, who was perfectly frantic with anxiety, begged hard to be allowed to go too, but Mr. Otis would not allow him, as he was afraid there might be a scuffle.
0	[_Takes letter and reads it_.]
0	I have never been so happy.
0	Go to some of your friends.
0	I want a breath of our passion to stir their dust into consciousness, to wake their ashes into pain.
0	He felt that the idea was monstrous.
0	Lady Hunstanton, I have such good news to tell you.
0	Thin-lipped wisdom spoke at her from the worn chair, hinted at prudence, quoted from that book of cowardice whose author apes the name of common sense.
0	He kept looking at the young Fisherman.
0	Besides these two books there were also the works of Michael Colyns, of Hans Weigel, of Amman, and of Vecellio himself, all of them well illustrated, some of the drawings in Vecellio being probably from the hand of Titian.
0	‘Get thee gone,’ he murmured, ‘and let me see thy face no more.’ ‘Nay, but we must meet again,’ said the Soul.
0	He is leaning over a desk covered with papers, and in a tumbler by his side there is a bunch of withered violets.
0	It were better for thee to come with me, for I know where the Valley of Pleasure lies, and what things are wrought there.’ But the young Fisherman answered not his Soul, but in a cleft of the rock he built himself a house of wattles, and abode there for the space of a year.
0	And why was the red stain larger than it had been?
0	Not that I agree with everything that I have said in this essay.
0	She shows herself naked in the sky.
0	The next night, of course, I arrived at the place again.
0	Jokanaan, I am amorous of thy body!
0	I am very fond of Tommy, but his methods of proposing are quite out of date.
0	[Inspects them, takes two, and sits down on the sofa.]
0	The excitement, such as it was, over Basil Hallward's disappearance would soon pass away.
0	Every century that produces poetry is, so far, an artificial century, and the work that seems to us to be the most natural and simple product of its time is always the result of the most self-conscious effort.
0	Had it indeed been prayer that had produced the substitution?
0	On and on plodded the hansom, going slower, it seemed to him, at each step.
0	We don’t want to be harrowed and disgusted with an account of the doings of the lower orders.
0	Well, I must say, Algernon, that I think it is high time that Mr. Bunbury made up his mind whether he was going to live or to die.
0	How old are you, dear?
0	But don’t spoil your beautiful young life on my account!
0	_watches_, _with a look of scorn and pain_, MRS. ERLYNNE _and her husband_.
0	Surely the world would know his secret then.
0	The ruin of another woman’s life.
0	He becomes more completely himself.
0	Miss Cardew is the grand-daughter of the late Mr. Thomas Cardew of 149 Belgrave Square, S.W.
0	I might mimic a passion that I do not feel, but I cannot mimic one that burns me like fire.
0	For some reason or other, the house was crowded that night, and the fat Jew manager who met them at the door was beaming from ear to ear with an oily tremulous smile.
0	There are far too many idle men in London as it is.
0	Ah, don’t be too conceited about them.
0	Well, sir, it is only ten o’clock.
0	And Mr. Hubbard tramped downstairs, followed by the assistant, who glanced back at Dorian with a look of shy wonder in his rough uncomely face.
0	They are mere vagrants like the gipsies, and should be treated in exactly the same manner.’  So they put their noses in the air, and looked very haughty, and were quite delighted when after some time they saw the little Dwarf scramble up from the grass, and make his way across the terrace to the palace.
0	You don't know what you were to me, once.
0	‘Even Mr. Robert Louis Stevenson, that delightful master of delicate and fanciful prose, is tainted with this modern vice, for we know positively no other name for it.
0	But what world says that, Lady Stutfield?
0	Mrs. Vane fixed her eyes on him and intensified her smile.
0	He had known Basil Hallward for months, but the friendship between them had never altered him.
0	I wonder we women stand it as well as we do.
0	"What I have to say is this," he cried.
0	And they said to him, ‘It is a beggar and the child of a beggar, and we have driven him away.’ ‘Nay,’ he cried, laughing, ‘but we will sell the foul thing for a slave, and his price shall be the price of a bowl of sweet wine.’ And an old and evil-visaged man who was passing by called out, and said, ‘I will buy him for that price,’ and, when he had paid the price, he took the Star-Child by the hand and led him into the city.
0	and what has Mr. Kelvil been talking to you about?
0	He shall see his name in every vile paper, mine on every hideous placard.
0	The artistic critic, like the mystic, is an antinomian always.
0	They do it so well in the daily papers.
0	It is a huge price to pay for a very poor result.
0	But it is said of you.
0	I sometimes wish she would; but she merely laughs at me."
0	Oh, I don't think I would care to catch a sensible man.
0	The dead man was still sitting there, too, and in the sunlight now.
0	‘How can one write songs of hatred without hating?’ he said to Eckermann, ‘and how could I, to whom culture and barbarism are alone of importance, hate a nation which is among the most cultivated of the earth and to which I owe so great a part of my own cultivation?’  This note, sounded in the modern world by Goethe first, will become, I think, the starting point for the cosmopolitanism of the future.
0	I am sure you were very badly brought up.
0	One is the word ‘unhealthy,’ the other is the word ‘exotic.’  The latter merely expresses the rage of the momentary mushroom against the immortal, entrancing, and exquisitely lovely orchid.
0	[_To_ LORD ILLINGWORTH]  May I come too?
0	Then they invited the North Wind to stay with them, and he came.
0	There are far more things forbidden to us than are forbidden to them.
0	_He talks rapidly and in a low voice_.
0	"You seemed rather out of sorts at dinner."
0	The palms of his feet and hands were yellow with saffron.
0	I am engaged to be married to Cecily, Aunt Augusta.
0	It produces absolutely no vibrations .
0	I don’t like the name.
0	That is the misery of being poor.
0	“‘Good morning,’ said Hans, leaning on his spade, and smiling from ear to ear.
0	Hear you’re going to be married again; thought you were tired of that game.
0	It was evident that Victor had returned.
0	It is enough that our fathers believed.
0	Your cynicism is simply a pose."
0	I will give thee the veil of the sanctuary.
0	Here is the stain on the lining caused by the explosion of a temperance beverage, an incident that occurred at Leamington.
0	It was simply a very second-rate Turner, a Turner of a bad period, with all the painter’s worst faults exaggerated and over-emphasised.
0	I don’t think we are bad.
0	Their voices were horribly shrill and discordant.
0	"The reason we all like to think so well of others is that we are all afraid for ourselves.
0	Once, some one who had terribly loved him had written to him a mad letter, ending with these idolatrous words: "The world is changed because you are made of ivory and gold.
0	I certainly will not allow Hans’ nature to be spoiled.
0	It is nearly eleven, and I want to go to bed early."
0	I won’t hear of its raining on your birthday!
0	Yes, I’m of age to-day.
0	Outside, there is the stirring of birds among the leaves, or the sound of men going forth to their work, or the sigh and sob of the wind coming down from the hills and wandering round the silent house, as though it feared to wake the sleepers and yet must needs call forth sleep from her purple cave.
0	And it spoils one’s career at critical moments.
0	The world belongs to you for a season....
0	[Rises, looks at her watch.]
0	You have no courage; none!
0	His mother was the daughter of the celebrated Dr. Griffiths, the editor and founder of the _Monthly Review_, the partner in another literary speculation of Thomas Davis, that famous bookseller of whom Johnson said that he was not a bookseller, but ‘a gentleman who dealt in books,’ the friend of Goldsmith and Wedgwood, and one of the most well-known men of his day.
0	I am afraid I can't stay more than a week this time.
0	I recognised it last night.
0	Her daughter, quite a well-brought-up girl, too, has actually become engaged to be married to a curate in Shropshire.
0	So it was always Winter there, and the North Wind, and the Hail, and the Frost, and the Snow danced about through the trees.
0	Beautiful sins, like beautiful things, are the privilege of the rich."
0	How cleverly you have both kept your secret.
0	In his chamber of stained ivory lies her leman.
0	Cecily, mamma, whose views on education are remarkably strict, has brought me up to be extremely short-sighted; it is part of her system; so do you mind my looking at you through my glasses?
0	When poor Southwark got into the divorce court, their indignation was quite magnificent.
0	The garnet cast out demons, and the hydropicus deprived the moon of her colour.
0	But I am bound to state that now that I know that you are Mr. Worthing's ward, I cannot help expressing a wish you were--well, just a little older than you seem to be--and not quite so very alluring in appearance.
0	This difficulty was got over at the time, but shortly afterwards he thought it better to go abroad till he could come to some practical arrangement with his creditors.
0	Will you help me on with my cloak?
0	And a great terror seized upon him, and he said to the weaver, ‘What robe is this that thou art weaving?’ ‘It is the robe for the coronation of the young King,’ he answered; ‘what is that to thee?’ And the young King gave a loud cry and woke, and lo!
0	Lord Illingworth, of course, is a man of high distinction.
0	When we came to the Tower of Serpents we gave them warm milk in howls of brass, and they let us go by.
0	You would not have understood it.
0	You can’t get that bracelet off, unless you know where the spring is.
0	At any rate, I determined to wait for the first act.
0	And Lord Lytton’s proposal that the dresses should merely be beautiful without being accurate is founded on a misapprehension of the nature of costume, and of its value on the stage.
0	But to Christ it was not so.
0	You’ll play, Arthur, won’t you?
0	Cake or bread and butter?
0	I was dominated, soul, brain, and power, by you.
0	Yes; but nothing could make her alter her views.
0	"I am quite content with philosophic contemplation.
0	It was some foul parody, some infamous ignoble satire.
0	The nineteenth century is no exception to the rule.
0	"No, Basil, you must tell me," insisted Dorian Gray.
0	I have ever met since .
0	Besides, I took the Baroness Bernstein down to dinner last night, and, though absolutely charming in every other respect, she insisted on discussing music as if it were actually written in the German language.
0	“It is but a ring of lead,” he cried, “nor has it any value.
0	They always want one to be good.
0	The sound of approaching footsteps, however, made him hesitate in his fell purpose, so he contented himself with becoming faintly phosphorescent, and vanished with a deep churchyard groan, just as the twins had come up to him.
0	The daughter of Jairus was dead.
0	He made me see what Life is, and what Death signifies, and why Love is stronger than both."
0	How can I save her?
0	Wherefore will I tempt thee no longer, but I pray thee to suffer me to enter thy heart, that I may be one with thee even as before.’ ‘Surely thou mayest enter,’ said the young Fisherman, ‘for in the days when with no heart thou didst go through the world thou must have much suffered.’ ‘Alas!’ cried his Soul, ‘I can find no place of entrance, so compassed about with love is this heart of thine.’ ‘Yet I would that I could help thee,’ said the young Fisherman.
0	"My dear boy, you are really beginning to moralize.
0	Besides, if Hans came here, he might ask me to let him have some flour on credit, and that I could not do.
0	"Why can't these American women stay in their own country?
0	And this is the important thing.
0	Then he thrust the door open and entered.
0	[_The_ VICOMTE DE NANJAC _enters from the music-room with some other guests_.
0	what delightful weather we are having!’ On and on went the two Woodcutters, blowing lustily upon their fingers, and stamping with their huge iron-shod boots upon the caked snow.
0	I am glad of that, Rachel.
0	Well, dear Mrs. Cheveley, I hope you have enjoyed yourself.
0	Many a young man starts in life with a natural gift for exaggeration which, if nurtured in congenial and sympathetic surroundings, or by the imitation of the best models, might grow into something really great and wonderful.
0	He would go back to Sibyl Vane, make her amends, marry her, try to love her again.
0	Mrs. Cheveley, I think it is right to tell you quite frankly that, had I known who you really were, I should not have invited you to my house last night.
0	If the poor fellow has been entrapped into any foolish promise I shall consider it my duty to rescue him at once, and with a firm hand.
0	A sort of sailor we think."
0	You had better sit beside me.
0	a phrase which when I wrote it seemed to me little more than a phrase; a great deal of it is hidden away in the note of doom that like a purple thread runs through the texture of _Dorian Gray_; in _The Critic as Artist_ it is set forth in many colours; in _The Soul of Man_ it is written down, and in letters too easy to read; it is one of the refrains whose recurring _motifs_ make _Salome_ so like a piece of music and bind it together as a ballad; in the prose poem of the man who from the bronze of the image of the 'Pleasure that liveth for a moment' has to make the image of the 'Sorrow that abideth for ever' it is incarnate.
0	[CECIL GRAHAM _goes back to C.
0	All that we desired to point out was, that the magnificent work of the Elizabethan and Jacobean artists contained within itself the seeds of its own dissolution, and that, if it drew some of its strength from using life as rough material, it drew all its weakness from using life as an artistic method.
0	If I said to you that I cared for her, perhaps loved her even—you would sneer at me, wouldn’t you?
0	The Jew manager, who was standing at the back of the dress-circle, stamped and swore with rage.
0	What was it that you said?
0	The one duty we owe to history is to re-write it.
0	Out of a tawny mane of drift she gleams like a lion’s eye.
0	There is no one type for man.
0	Your mother is a thoroughly good woman.
0	You must make it possible.
0	He put the little hands round his neck, and with his fingers he touched the thin reed of the throat.
0	I am quite comfortable, Caroline.
0	From this he moved to Paris, where he remained for several years, living in luxury, some say, while others talk of his ‘skulking with poison in his pocket, and being dreaded by all who knew him.’  In 1837 he returned to England privately.
0	When Milton became blind he composed, as every one should compose, with the voice purely, and so the pipe or reed of earlier days became that mighty many-stopped organ whose rich reverberant music has all the stateliness of Homeric verse, if it seeks not to have its swiftness, and is the one imperishable inheritance of English literature sweeping through all the ages, because above them, and abiding with us ever, being immortal in its form.
0	"Well, sit down and tell me all about it.
0	I really don’t remember which.
0	Everything is packed, except my shirts, so you need not trouble."
0	We come across some noble grief that we think will lend the purple dignity of tragedy to our days, but it passes away from us, and things less noble take its place, and on some grey windy dawn, or odorous eve of silence and of silver, we find ourselves looking with callous wonder, or dull heart of stone, at the tress of gold-flecked hair that we had once so wildly worshipped and so madly kissed.
0	The Middle Ages, as we know them in art, are simply a definite form of style, and there is no reason at all why an artist with this style should not be produced in the nineteenth century.
0	And he reached out his hands, and clasped the white feet of the leper, and said to him: ‘Thrice did I give thee of my mercy.
0	Of course they only say it behind my back.
0	"Really, some one should interfere."
0	Dorian started to his feet.
0	With the abolition of private property, then, we shall have true, beautiful, healthy Individualism.
0	Well, what shall we do?
0	The air was heavy with the perfume of the flowers, and their beauty seemed to bring him an anodyne for his pain.
0	You are going to a new world, and I have found one.
0	She has nothing to complain of.
0	My brother is in the dining-room?
0	The cornelian appeased anger, and the hyacinth provoked sleep, and the amethyst drove away the fumes of wine.
0	his face was as the face of a toad, and his body was sealed like an adder.
0	One cannot acquire it, except by surrendering everything that one has.
0	Arthur, you are unjust to me.
0	It is no less than a denial of the soul.
0	There is absolutely nothing in the world but youth!"
0	So that is our son, Rachel!
0	He could not bear this marriage, and yet it seemed to him to be better than many other things that might have happened.
0	The Fauns also he blessed, and the little things that dance in the woodland, and the bright-eyed things that peer through the leaves.
0	She said quite simply to me, 'You look more like a prince.
0	He was a very curious man.
0	Who is this who cometh from Edom, who is this who cometh from Bozra, whose raiment is dyed with purple, who shineth in the beauty of his garments, who walketh mighty in his greatness?
0	Just, however, as he reached the top of the great oak staircase, a door was flung open, two little white-robed figures appeared, and a large pillow whizzed past his head!
0	Lord Henry looked across the table.
0	[_Taking no notice at all of_ LORD GORING, _and addressing herself exclusively to_ LORD CAVERSHAM.]
0	They had an immense advantage.
0	We cannot divide it by seasons.
0	In fact, he had a most distinguished manner.
0	‘What shall this serve me?’ he asked of her, wondering.
0	But since Sir John has taken to attending the debates regularly, which he never used to do in the good old days, his language has become quite impossible.
0	"I can sympathize with everything except suffering," said Lord Henry, shrugging his shoulders.
0	"My Lord," answered the Minister, "I will take the furniture and the ghost at a valuation.
0	And the Soul stood on the lonely beach and watched them.
0	_The sound of a string quartette is faintly heard_.
0	Pleasure is Nature’s test, her sign of approval.
0	Robert, love gives one an instinct to things.
0	"Oh, something like, 'Charming boy--poor dear mother and I absolutely inseparable.
0	Shelley and Sophocles are of his company.
0	Gradually the events of the preceding night crept with silent, blood-stained feet into his brain and reconstructed themselves there with terrible distinctness.
0	He was gathering his harvest while it was yet spring.
0	He is a holy man.
0	You would not turn a hair.
0	_The entrance on the left leads to other reception-rooms_.
0	She reads them at home.
0	He hesitated for a moment.
0	One often imagines things that are quite absurd.
0	They at once sought for the journalist, found him, developed him, and made him their industrious and well-paid servant.
0	In the best days of art there were no art-critics.
0	And I have so many bad qualities.
0	I daresay it was foolish of me, but I fell in love with you, Ernest.
0	Three young men in elaborate smoking-suits were handing tea-cakes to some of the women.
0	Robert, men can love what is beneath them—things unworthy, stained, dishonoured.
0	The sky was pure opal now, and the roofs of the houses glistened like silver against it.
0	Your voice wakes terrible memories—memories of things that made me love you—memories of words that made me love you—memories that now are horrible to me.
0	And you must not say these extravagant things to me.
0	I am surprised at you.
0	"Great things have been thrust on us, Gladys."
0	He only interested me once, and that was when he told me, years ago, that he had a wild adoration for you and that you were the dominant motive of his art."
0	Indeed, to destroy a body must be far less horrible than what you are accustomed to work at.
0	I must look at him closer.
0	"By this time, however, the lights were being put out in the theatre, and I had to go.
0	Don't let her come to any harm.
0	Moonlight._ How beautiful is the Princess Salomé to-night!
0	But we are positively getting elbowed into the corner.
0	To say nothing of the fact that she is my cousin.
0	[_Sitting on the back of the sofa_.]
0	"I shall come with you, Dorian, if you wish it.
0	I am so pleased you have come up.
0	The lad was infinitely dear to him, and his personality had been the great turning point in his art.
0	“Far away,” continued the statue in a low musical voice, “far away in a little street there is a poor house.
0	Who are the people the world takes seriously?
0	The lively part of the evening is only just beginning.
0	I have sapphires big like eggs, and as blue as blue flowers.
0	My—heart is affected here, and that I don’t like.
0	She was little more than a girl then.
0	You must never play these practical jokes any more."
0	"And does his philosophy make you happy?"
0	When he reached home, he found his servant waiting up for him.
0	That is quite enough for him.
0	According to our ridiculous English laws, I can’t legitimise Gerald.
0	To us, what is termed orthodoxy is merely a facile unintelligent acquiescence; but to them, and in their hands, it was a terrible and paralysing tyranny.
0	You seem to forget that I know his real character.
0	_Tea is set on a small table close to_ LADY CHILTERN.]
0	Then it was that I resolved never to allow the picture to be exhibited.
0	Harry, I do love her.
0	There is no resemblance between the two things at all.
0	We have now to make what is beautiful.
0	I am very fond of children.
0	I looked out from behind the curtain and surveyed the house.
0	But the Nightingale understood the secret of the Student’s sorrow, and she sat silent in the oak-tree, and thought about the mystery of Love.
0	_A mask has fallen from her_.
0	Or was there some other, more terrible reason?
0	There are Romans here, we must drink to Cæsar.
0	The little Dwarf looked in wonder all round him, and was half-afraid to go on.
0	Just what Society should be.
0	In fact, you should take example by me; you could not possibly have a better model.
0	Besides, he would miss the sham bull-fight for which the trumpet was already sounding, to say nothing of the puppet-show and the other wonderful things.
0	Isaacs_, and as for _Robert Elsmere_, I am quite devoted to it.
0	On the back of the silver mirror he graved Thetis borne by her Nereids, or love-sick Phædra with her nurse, or Persephone, weary of memory, putting poppies in her hair.
0	Come, old boy, you had much better have the thing out at once.
0	It is wiser than we are, and its wisdom is bitter.
0	Or perhaps you had better go in front.
0	Who could have advised you to do such a foolish thing?
0	We do not expect him till Monday afternoon.
0	Goethe—you will not misunderstand what I say—was a German of the Germans.
0	I regret to say, Miss Chiltern, that I have no influence at all over my son.
0	"Humanity takes itself too seriously.
0	I am cold—cold as a loveless thing.
0	But when he had reached the outskirts of the wood, he heard from a thicket a cry as of some one in pain.
0	Mamma has a way of coming back suddenly into a room that I have often had to speak to her about.
0	From what cause I, of course, cannot say.
0	And besides, my dear old Basil, if you really want to console me, teach me rather to forget what has happened, or to see it from a proper artistic point of view.
0	The subject has not even been touched on.
0	In fact, to be a bit better than one’s neighbour was considered excessively vulgar and middle-class.
0	cried Lord Henry, standing up and looking at him in perplexed amazement.
0	His good father was just the same.
0	In the year 1879, just after I had left Oxford, I met at a reception at the house of one of the Foreign Ministers a woman of very curious exotic beauty.
0	It is just like the beating of wings.
0	I knew his mother quite well.
0	You are devoted to your mother’s memory, Lady Windermere, your husband tells me.
0	I suppose he has been paying you compliments.
0	[Looks in her pocket for note-book and pencil.]
0	When Sibyl comes on the stage you will have a new ideal of life.
0	I assure you that they do not.
0	I trust, Gertrude, that Sir Robert is not like that?
0	I have dwelt with thee for all these years, and have been thy servant.
0	The passage comes later on in the article, but I may as well give it to you now:— ‘The popular cry of our time is “Let us return to Life and Nature; they will recreate Art for us, and send the red blood coursing through her veins; they will shoe her feet with swiftness and make her hand strong.” But, alas!
0	As long as a thing is useful or necessary to us, or affects us in any way, either for pain or for pleasure, or appeals strongly to our sympathies, or is a vital part of the environment in which we live, it is outside the proper sphere of art.
0	How do you do, Lord Augustus?
0	My elder brother won't die, and my younger brothers seem never to do anything else."
0	The strange silent horsemen that galloped so swiftly through the long glades without making any noise, seemed to him like those terrible phantoms of whom he had heard the charcoal-burners speaking—the Comprachos, who hunt only at night, and if they meet a man, turn him into a hind, and chase him.
0	People point to Reading Gaol and say, 'That is where the artistic life leads a man.'
0	You must get a wife, sir.
0	I myself am inclined to think that creation is doomed.
0	But I don't like the name of Algernon.
0	Well, you seemed to be a little sceptical about the theory.
0	Lord Darlington leaves England to-morrow.
0	_She stands immobile with a look of unutterable sorrow on her face_.]
0	He would have thought little of the Prisoners' Aid Society and other modern movements of the kind.
0	He read of the swallows that fly in and out of the little _cafe_ at Smyrna where the Hadjis sit counting their amber beads and the turbaned merchants smoke their long tasselled pipes and talk gravely to each other; he read of the Obelisk in the Place de la Concorde that weeps tears of granite in its lonely sunless exile and longs to be back by the hot, lotus-covered Nile, where there are Sphinxes, and rose-red ibises, and white vultures with gilded claws, and crocodiles with small beryl eyes that crawl over the green steaming mud; he began to brood over those verses which, drawing music from kiss-stained marble, tell of that curious statue that Gautier compares to a contralto voice, the "_monstre charmant_" that couches in the porphyry-room of the Louvre.
0	Dorian heaved a sigh, and Lord Henry strolled across the room and began to stroke the head of a curious Java parrot, a large, grey-plumaged bird with pink crest and tail, that was balancing itself upon a bamboo perch.
0	She started to her feet.
0	Sibyl is always under my special care.
0	My carriage must have come back by this time.
0	There seemed to him to be something tragic in a friendship so coloured by romance.
0	Finished what, may I ask?
0	Robert, that is all very well for other men, for men who treat life simply as a sordid speculation; but not for you, Robert, not for you.
0	It is the largest emerald in the whole world.
0	Uncle Jack, if you don't shake hands with Ernest I will never forgive you.
0	My wife is at the seaside with the children, Lady Caroline.
0	The Lizards also took an immense fancy to him, and when he grew tired of running about and flung himself down on the grass to rest, they played and romped all over him, and tried to amuse him in the best way they could.
0	It was very low at first, with deep mellow notes that seemed to fall singly upon one's ear.
0	Do you think that it is the imagination that enables us to live these countless lives?
0	No, dear, he was killed in the hunting field.
0	But so interwoven are the two that, whenever in our own day historical accuracy has been disregarded, and the various dresses in a play taken from different ages, the result has been that the stage has been turned into that chaos of costume, that caricature of the centuries, the Fancy Dress Ball, to the entire ruin of all dramatic and picturesque effect.
0	But read an authority, like Aristophanes, for instance.
0	To discern the beauty of a thing is the finest point to which we can arrive.
0	And how say ye that I am beautiful, for I know that I am evil to look at?’ Then he, whose armour was inlaid with gilt flowers, and on whose helmet crouched a lion that had wings, held up a shield, and cried, ‘How saith my lord that he is not beautiful?’ And the Star-Child looked, and lo!
0	Surely they are like the people they pretend to represent?
0	Now and then, however, he is horribly thoughtless, and seems to take a real delight in giving me pain.
0	English public opinion, that is to say, tries to constrain and impede and warp the man who makes things that are beautiful in effect, and compels the journalist to retail things that are ugly, or disgusting, or revolting in fact, so that we have the most serious journalists in the world, and the most indecent newspapers.
0	Elia complains that to him the merit of a MS. poem is uncertain; “print,” as he excellently says, “settles it.”  Fifty years’ toning does the same thing to a picture.’  He is happier when he is writing about Watteau and Lancret, about Rubens and Giorgione, about Rembrandt, Corregio, and Michael Angelo; happiest of all when he is writing about Greek things.
0	Lady Bracknell, I hate to seem inquisitive, but would you kindly inform me who I am?
0	I see that Basil is in one of his sulky moods, and I can't bear him when he sulks.
0	I dislike arguments of any kind.
0	As for the second condition, we have had Browning, and Meredith is with us.
0	Richard II had a coat, valued at thirty thousand marks, which was covered with balas rubies.
0	All your life you have stood apart from others.
0	Sell us thy body for a slave, and we will clothe thee in sea-purple, and put a ring upon thy finger, and make thee the minion of the great Queen.
0	The colours faded wearily out of things.
0	Something had evidently happened to the spectre, for the light had entirely faded from its hollow eyes, the gleaming falchion had fallen from its hand, and it was leaning up against the wall in a strained and uncomfortable attitude.
0	I will not look on it.
0	A great work of dramatic art should not merely be made expressive of modern passion by means of the actor, but should be presented to us in the form most suitable to the modern spirit.
0	But I have no doubt his name would appear in any military directory.
0	ahem!” said the Rocket, and he began to cough.
0	“How happy we are here!” they cried to each other.
0	But you have not seen my Corots yet.
0	"Here," answered Sir Geoffrey angrily, hurrying towards the thicket.
0	My dear Arthur, what a piece of good luck meeting you on the doorstep!
0	Now is the moment when you really want my help, now is the time when you have got to trust me, to trust in my counsel and judgment.
0	He grew more and more enamoured of his own beauty, more and more interested in the corruption of his own soul.
0	She had a magnificent constitution, and a really wonderful amount of animal spirits.
0	There was so much in him that was good, so much in him that was noble.
0	He put the box back, shutting the cabinet doors as he did so, and went into his bedroom.
0	They stretched out their lean arms and pulled the heavy oars through the water.
0	"I have never been so happy.
0	And out of the slime at the bottom of the valley crept dragons and horrible things with scales, and the jackals came trotting along the sand, sniffing up the air with their nostrils.
0	Oh, don’t say that, Arthur; don’t talk like that!
0	He mocked the misshapen body and the failing limbs.
0	Why is your friendship so fatal to young men?
0	But there is no such thing, sir, as a ghost, and I guess the laws of Nature are not going to be suspended for the British aristocracy."
0	Do you think I am going to peril my reputation for you?
0	I am trying to say so, though they may not think it at the present moment.
0	You have been the one person in my life who has really influenced my art.
0	Spoiled my shooting for the day."
0	My daughter and I come of a royal race.
0	And when the young King heard this he gave a great cry, and woke, and through the window he saw the long grey fingers of the dawn clutching at the fading stars.
0	After that, my dear, I really must bid you good morning.
0	"I have never searched for happiness.
0	That is exactly what you should help him to do.
0	I have not been called back to town at all.
0	You were his great friend.
0	“Press closer, little Nightingale,” cried the Tree, “or the Day will come before the rose is finished.” So the Nightingale pressed closer against the thorn, and louder and louder grew her song, for she sang of the birth of passion in the soul of a man and a maid.
0	And that, consequently, whatever the world has treated seriously belongs to the comedy side of things.
0	[Goes straight over to Cecily without noticing any one else.]
0	Still, there is the word, and they use it as best they can.
0	Concerning Messias who has come.
0	He wanted to escape from himself.
0	[_Gets up and flings himself sobbing on a sofa_.]
0	“He has a great many good points, but for my own part I have a mother’s feelings, and I can never look at a confirmed bachelor without the tears coming into my eyes.” “I am rather afraid that I have annoyed him,” answered the Linnet.
0	my dear Ernest, to sit next to a man who has spent his life in trying to educate others!
0	The policeman strolled over and said something to her.
0	‘In the fourth month we reached the city of Illel.
0	"But, my dear Dorian--" "Yes, Harry, I know what you are going to say.
0	Milton, with his sense of the grand style, could not understand the method of Shakespeare, any more than could Sir Joshua the method of Gainsborough.
0	The elder woman grew pale beneath the coarse powder that daubed her cheeks, and her dry lips twitched with a spasm of pain.
0	They have beaten upon their shields with their spears, and have put on their helmets of iron.
0	But they make one so demmed respectable.
0	Shabbiness, which in modern life is merely the tendency of the lower orders towards tone, is not without its artistic value, and modern colours are often much improved by being a little faded.
0	[The sound of an electric bell is heard.]
0	[Lane presents several letters on a salver to Algernon.
0	I can’t bear to see you with her.
0	I am quite comfortable, Caroline, I assure you.
0	I am not hungry, Tetrarch.
0	It is because your husband is himself fraudulent and dishonest that we pair so well together.
0	It was a most piteous tale, as the girl had ended by running away with a man absolutely inferior to her, not merely in social station, but in character and intellect also.
0	I take the side of the charming, and you, Lady Windermere, can’t help belonging to them.
0	One should never give a woman anything that she can’t wear in the evening.
0	Perhaps the people are a little jaded.
0	Thank you, Arthur, thank you.
0	It floated through the reeds of the river, and they carried its message to the sea.
0	“I don’t understand you,” answered the Water-rat.
0	The thing has become an absolute public nuisance.
0	Had some strange poisonous germ crept from body to body till it had reached his own?
0	He reflects every credit on the institution.
0	if my name was Algy, couldn't you love me?
0	He drew with silver-point and charcoal upon parchment and prepared cedar.
0	In the farthest corner of the garden was a tree quite covered with lovely white blossoms.
0	Indeed, they have their technique, just as the more material arts of painting and sculpture have, their subtle secrets of form and colour, their craft-mysteries, their deliberate artistic methods.
0	He makes himself the spy of his proper actions, and listening to his own words knows them to be but 'words, words, words.'
0	A pedestal may be a very unreal thing.
0	On the evening of the 14th they all went to the play, and at supper that night Helen sickened.
0	"Send him in," he muttered, after some moments' hesitation.
0	He would place his white hands beside the coarse bloated hands of the picture, and smile.
0	At the same moment he heard stifled shrieks of laughter proceeding from the four-post bed.
0	It desires to get rid of pain, and the suffering that pain entails.
0	The little Princess herself walked up and down the terrace with her companions, and played at hide and seek round the stone vases and the old moss-grown statues.
0	[_Rises and goes across to_ HESTER WORSLEY.]
0	Their beaks are gilded with gold, and the grains that they eat are gilded with gold also, and their feet are stained with purple.
0	said Sibyl, laughing, "how unkind of you!
0	You will like them always.
0	My heart is cold: something has broken it.
0	Dorian Gray shook his head.
0	He arrived about half an hour ago.
0	"But I am afraid I cannot claim my theory as my own.
0	You have grown hard, Rachel.
0	And it is high time for you to get married.
0	But even the Impressionists, earnest and industrious as they are, will not do.
0	HESTER _breaks from_ GERALD’S _arms and points to him_.]
0	I smoke a great deal too much.
0	He crept away, lest he should see it, and covered his eyes with his hands.
0	You never say a moral thing, and you never do a wrong thing.
0	It was exactly one o'clock.
0	But, remember, if you touch this screen, everything is over between us."
0	You will join them later on, no doubt?
0	Yet the roses are not less lovely for all that.
0	Mildred Tresham is there, and the Spanish monk, yellow with hatred, and Blougram, and Ben Ezra, and the Bishop of St. Praxed’s.
0	Ernest has a strong upright nature.
0	It had once been the chamber of _Jean le Fou_, as he was called, that mad King who was so enamoured of the chase, that he had often tried in his delirium to mount the huge rearing horses, and to drag down the stag on which the great hounds were leaping, sounding his hunting horn, and stabbing with his dagger at the pale flying deer.
0	She must know at once that she has been mistaken in you—and that you are not a man to do anything base or underhand or dishonourable.
0	No, I don’t think it is quite a little thing.
0	I think they are more .
0	But women never know when the curtain has fallen.
0	_Janus Weathercock_, _Egomet Bonmot_, and _Van Vinkvooms_, were some of the grotesque masks under which he choose to hide his seriousness or to reveal his levity.
0	You know what a woman’s curiosity is.
0	I myself regard them as being perfectly ridiculous.
0	“‘Who is there?’ cried the Doctor, putting his head out of his bedroom window.
0	‘Tell me how I may do it, and lo!
0	There was romance in every place.
0	What this man has been, he is now, and will be always.
0	I wanted immensely to meet you, and .
0	I determined to say nothing about it till I had found the thief.
0	While you talk it seems to me to be so.
0	Love is a very wonderful thing, isn’t it?
0	"Because," said Lord Henry, passing beneath his nostrils the gilt trellis of an open vinaigrette box, "one can survive everything nowadays except that.
0	"I believe she has made up her mind to propose to him, Duchess."
0	"I never approve, or disapprove, of anything now.
0	Come with me and I will show them to thee.
0	But there is a little thing I would like you to do for me.
0	"Shall I leave the things here, sir?"
0	"I suppose you have heard the news, Basil?"
0	It was not the basis of his creed.
0	A glass of sherry, Lane.
0	It looked the loveliest of little live things.
0	I can quite understand that.
0	It is in the deferred resolutions of Chopin's music.
0	The old Jew stood grinning at the doorway of the dusty greenroom, making elaborate speeches about us both, while we stood looking at each other like children.
0	the dawn finds us in the obscure wood, and the Mantuan stands by our side.
0	It is like a _bric-a-brac_ shop, all monsters and dust, with everything priced above its proper value.
0	The flame-like crocus sprang from the grass to look at her.
0	There is a mist upon the woods, like the purple bloom upon a plum.
0	Wealthy people are, as a class, better than impoverished people, more moral, more intellectual, more well-behaved.
0	I gave him all my life.
0	Cecily, I have not mentioned anything about a headache.
0	‘If in very truth thou art my mother,’ he said, ‘it had been better hadst thou stayed away, and not come here to bring me to shame, seeing that I thought I was the child of some Star, and not a beggar’s child, as thou tellest me that I am.
0	You have never been to any of my parties, have you, Mr. Gray?
0	If in some hideous dissecting-room or fetid laboratory you found this man lying on a leaden table with red gutters scooped out in it for the blood to flow through, you would simply look upon him as an admirable subject.
0	You think it wrong that you are found out, don’t you?
0	For each scene the colour-scheme should be settled as absolutely as for the decoration of a room, and the textures which it is proposed to use should be mixed and re-mixed in every possible combination, and what is discordant removed.
0	A few Russian artists have realised themselves in Art; in a fiction that is mediæval in character, because its dominant note is the realisation of men through suffering.
0	The boy is so thirsty, and the mother so sad.” “I don’t think I like boys,” answered the Swallow.
0	In what wine-press may one find it?
0	After a few years he could not endure to be long out of England, and gave up the villa that he had shared at Trouville with Lord Henry, as well as the little white walled-in house at Algiers where they had more than once spent the winter.
0	And after a few moments he shrugged his shoulders, and rose up, and having made a low bow to the Infanta, he said— ‘_Mi bella Princesa_, your funny little dwarf will never dance again.
0	You are my little cousin Cecily, I'm sure.
0	it is heresy to say that in this house, Lady Markby.
0	You are heartless, sir, quite heartless.
0	The more abstract, the more ideal an art is, the more it reveals to us the temper of its age.
0	There is nothing to be done.
0	But women are awfully clever, aren’t they?
0	From the corner of the divan of Persian saddle-bags on which he was lying, smoking, as was his custom, innumerable cigarettes, Lord Henry Wotton could just catch the gleam of the honey-sweet and honey-coloured blossoms of a laburnum, whose tremulous branches seemed hardly able to bear the burden of a beauty so flamelike as theirs; and now and then the fantastic shadows of birds in flight flitted across the long tussore-silk curtains that were stretched in front of the huge window, producing a kind of momentary Japanese effect, and making him think of those pallid, jade-faced painters of Tokyo who, through the medium of an art that is necessarily immobile, seek to convey the sense of swiftness and motion.
0	"You spoil my life as an artist by refusing, Dorian.
0	I had only met her once before, but she took it into her head to lionize me.
0	"Do you think my nature so shallow?"
0	Our rugs and carpets of twenty years ago, with their solemn depressing truths, their inane worship of Nature, their sordid reproductions of visible objects, have become, even to the Philistine, a source of laughter.
0	It is something very particular.
0	She suffered terribly—she suffers now.
0	I love thee yet, Jokanaan, I love thee only....
0	Shows such refinement of feeling, does it not?
0	[_R.C._]  No, dear Lord Augustus, you can’t explain anything.
0	You must come and dine with us some night.
0	Out of the unreal shadows of the night comes back the real life that we had known.
0	You must not look at her.
0	The Triumph of something, I don’t know what!
0	Indeed, I fear that the inartistic temperaments of the day busied themselves also in matters of literature and art, for the accusations of plagiarism were endless, and such accusations proceed either from the thin colourless lips of impotence, or from the grotesque mouths of those who, possessing nothing of their own, fancy that they can gain a reputation for wealth by crying out that they have been robbed.
0	It is not meet that the eyes of a virgin should look upon such a thing.
0	He is not to go to the play to lose a vulgar temper.
0	Will you take the time from me?
0	Stand on the sea-shore with thy back to the moon, and cut away from around thy feet thy shadow, which is thy soul’s body, and bid thy soul leave thee, and it will do so.’ The young Fisherman trembled.
0	The calendar of my daily conduct and labour that hangs on the outside of my cell door, with my name and sentence written upon it, tells me that it is May.
0	I find that, ultimately, there are only two kinds of women, the plain and the coloured.
0	Picked it up at a sale.
0	I want to talk to you about .
0	[Puts book very quietly down and speaks quite calmly.]
0	Yet his object will not always be to explain the work of art.
0	I am going to tell her.
0	My dear nieces—you know the Saville girls, don’t you?—such nice domestic creatures—plain, dreadfully plain, but so good—well, they’re always at the window doing fancy work, and making ugly things for the poor, which I think so useful of them in these dreadful socialistic days, and this terrible woman has taken a house in Curzon Street, right opposite them—such a respectable street, too!
0	You will have a great deal to say to her, and she will have a great deal to thank you for.
0	And how horribly real ugliness made things!
0	Conscience is the trade-name of the firm.
0	God knows the last few minutes have thrust us wide enough apart.
0	When a man says that, one knows that life has exhausted him.
0	The curiously carved mirror that Lord Henry had given to him, so many years ago now, was standing on the table, and the white-limbed Cupids laughed round it as of old.
0	She has played her last part.
0	And the chief thing that makes life a failure from this artistic point of view is the thing that lends to life its sordid security, the fact that one can never repeat exactly the same emotion.
0	If you pretend to be good, the world takes you very seriously.
0	I have no sympathy myself with industry of any kind, least of all with such industries as you seem to recommend.
0	There is nothing necessarily dignified about manual labour at all, and most of it is absolutely degrading.
0	[_Moves L.C._]  And then I used to think that with all your faults you were frank and honest.
0	* * * * * Every evening the young Fisherman went out upon the sea, and called to the Mermaid, and she rose out of the water and sang to him.
0	My son [LORD ILLINGWORTH _shrugs his shoulders_]—to go away with the man who spoiled my youth, who ruined my life, who has tainted every moment of my days?
0	Puts down cup at once, reaches out her hand to the bread and butter, looks at it, and finds it is cake.
0	The ruby shall be redder than a red rose, and the sapphire shall be as blue as the great sea.” “In the square below,” said the Happy Prince, “there stands a little match-girl.
0	Underneath a great canopy of gold cloth, on which the lions and towers of Castile were broidered in seed pearls, stood the throne itself, covered with a rich pall of black velvet studded with silver tulips and elaborately fringed with silver and pearls.
0	From the point of view of feeling, the actor's craft is the type.
0	That is the only thing for any woman to do.
0	If one doesn't talk about a thing, it has never happened.
0	No, the politicians won’t do.
0	I realise that I am talking to a man who laid the foundation of his fortune by selling to a Stock Exchange speculator a Cabinet secret.
0	This noise is extremely unpleasant.
0	"He wants to enslave you."
0	Her name was Victoria, and she had a perfect mania for going to church.
0	But the true tragedy that dogs the steps of most artists is that they realise their ideal too absolutely.
0	I was a princess, and thou didst scorn me.
0	It is not a speculation.
0	Oftentimes he called to her and prayed of her, but she would not; and when he sought to seize her she dived into the water as a seal might dive, nor did he see her again that day.
0	We all may make mistakes.
0	We won’t discuss that at present.
0	[Rushes to bookcase and tears the books out.]
0	She has become red as blood.
0	The many have come now.
0	that you will be a good boy and not forget us," she answered, smiling at him.
0	There had been something more.
0	You say you owe me something?
0	She laughs while she dances, and the silver rings that are about her ankles tinkle like bells of silver.
0	She asked me to tell you!
0	The less said about life's sores, the better."
0	But, of course, for the next twenty-four hours the whole thing is a dead secret.
0	Then came a new development.
0	You can come and sit down if you like, and talk about anything in the world, except the Royal Academy, Mrs. Cheveley, or novels in Scotch dialect.
0	And in the morning, while it was still dawn, he went forth with the monks and the musicians, and the candle-bearers and the swingers of censers, and a great company, and came to the shore of the sea, and blessed the sea, and all the wild things that are in it.
0	What have I done to you?"
0	There is soul in them and around them.
0	Do you object to modernity of form, then?
0	Let us go into the house.
0	I am on my way to join her.
0	He walks in the mire.
0	[_Rises hastily and slips the letter under a large silver-cased blotting-book that is lying on the table_.]
0	But he remembered his dreams, and he said to his lords: ‘Take these things away, for I will not wear them.’ And the courtiers were amazed, and some of them laughed, for they thought that he was jesting.
0	It is an awfully dangerous thing.
0	They seemed to follow him wherever he went.
0	I absolutely declined to accept or admit the enormous truth hidden in them.
0	If it had been a girl, I would have called it after my mother.
0	He was a gentleman, and he hated him for that, hated him through some curious race-instinct for which he could not account, and which for that reason was all the more dominant within him.
0	"Good night," answered the young man, passing up the steps and wiping his parched mouth with a handkerchief.
0	anything becomes a pleasure if one does it too often," cried Lord Henry, laughing.
0	The basis of optimism is sheer terror.
0	He lived in a tiny cottage all by himself, and every day he worked in his garden.
0	Arthur, if that woman comes here—I warn you— LORD WINDERMERE.
0	"They don't last, I am told," muttered his uncle.
0	Dr. Chasuble, my unfortunate brother.
0	And he had such a beautiful voice.
0	That is always a dangerous thing to do, and if you allow it to degenerate into a habit you will find it absolutely fatal to any intellectual development.
0	What is my wife’s fan doing here in your rooms?
0	Lord Henry looked at him.
0	Lady Caroline Pontefract, Lady Stutfield, Mrs. Allonby, and my young American friend, Miss Worsley, who has just been telling us all how wicked we are.
0	Yellow is a gayer colour, is it not?
0	The fact is constantly mentioned in the more expensive monthly magazines, and has reached the provincial pulpits, I am told; and my ideal has always been to love some one of the name of Ernest.
0	She rose from her knees and, with a piteous expression of pain in her face, came across the room to him.
0	[_L.C._]  Yes, dear, these wicked women get our husbands away from us, but they always come back, slightly damaged, of course.
0	He would give her his own little bed, and would watch outside the window till dawn, to see that the wild horned cattle did not harm her, nor the gaunt wolves creep too near the hut.
0	From what vineyards is it gathered?
0	We have not a moment to lose.
0	In the case of the novel and the drama, arts in which the public do take an interest, the result of the exercise of popular authority has been absolutely ridiculous.
0	well, not about bonnets, or the Woman’s Liberal Association.
0	“Good-bye, dear Prince!” he murmured, “will you let me kiss your hand?” “I am glad that you are going to Egypt at last, little Swallow,” said the Prince, “you have stayed too long here; but you must kiss me on the lips, for I love you.” “It is not to Egypt that I am going,” said the Swallow.
0	The people went to and fro over the plain like flies crawling upon a disk of polished copper.
0	Every one in London knows it except you.
0	Dorian watched them as they plunged into the alder-clump, brushing the lithe swinging branches aside.
0	“What right have you to be happy?
0	I was quite right in saying you were a Bunburyist.
0	I would indeed that thou hadst asked of me either gold or silver.
0	There is the Puritan, of course, the Puritan in white muslin, but she doesn’t count.
0	Oh yes, thank you, that is mine.
0	Do what I tell you.
0	[Picture: Decorative graphic of children in garden] One day the Giant came back.
0	That makes the second to-day.
0	Mr. Worthing, there is just one question I would like to be permitted to put to you.
0	the day of which I spoke.
0	Never speak disrespectfully of Society, Algernon.
0	Ordinary women never appeal to one's imagination.
0	Charity, dear Miss Prism, charity!
0	I am particularly anxious to hear the names quite clearly, so as to make no mistake.
0	She seemed not to listen to him.
0	It is true that there is a mention of a bodice for Eve, but probably the _donnée_ of the play was after the Fall.
0	So much, indeed, did the subtle mechanism of mind fascinate him that he despised language, or looked upon it as an incomplete instrument of expression.
0	All crime is vulgar, just as all vulgarity is crime.
0	All the Selby property came to her, through her grandfather.
0	Some of his sketches of Charles Lamb are admirable in their way, and, with the art of the true comedian, borrow their style from their subject:—     What can I say of thee more than all know?
0	The real drawback to marriage is that it makes one unselfish.
0	You’ll take a cigar, won’t you?
0	The garden, an old-fashioned one, full of roses.
0	All work of that kind should be done by a machine.
0	Believe what you choose about me.
0	I don't offer any explanation, and you are not to ask for any.
0	Who, being loved, is poor?
0	How gorgeous in its pomp and decoration!
0	If I marry a charming girl like Gwendolen, and she is the only girl I ever saw in my life that I would marry, I certainly won't want to know Bunbury.
0	Suffering is one very long moment.
0	"It was my _debut_ in life," she sighed.
0	“For a red rose?” they cried; “how very ridiculous!” and the little Lizard, who was something of a cynic, laughed outright.
0	A woman whose size in gloves is seven and three-quarters never knows much about anything.
0	In Saturn the soul sings not, and even she who guides us dare not smile.
0	People have tried to make him out an ordinary philanthropist, or ranked him as an altruist with the scientific and sentimental.
0	“We must really issue a proclamation that birds are not to be allowed to die here.”  And the Town Clerk made a note of the suggestion.
0	And he loosened his arms from about her, and she sank down into the water, trembling with a strange fear.
0	But I confess that many of the socialistic views that I have come across seem to me to be tainted with ideas of authority, if not of actual compulsion.
0	Wait, wait a moment; listen to me.
0	I know now that I was quite right in what I fancied about him.
0	To have ruined one's self over poetry is an honour.
0	_Palms_, _flowers_, _and brilliant lights_.
0	If by that time your husband does not solemnly bind himself to help me in this great scheme in which I am interested— LADY CHILTERN.
0	And I have no doubt that it will be so.
0	I would much sooner have your good opinion than my silver buttons, any day’; and he ran and plucked all his pretty primroses, and filled the Miller’s basket.
0	Lady Chiltern’s handwriting on Lady Chiltern’s pink notepaper.
0	You have crushed the grapes against your palate.
0	I wish you had been as jealous of mine.
0	That is a very wonderful opening for so young a man as you are, Mr. Arbuthnot.
0	[LORD WINDERMERE _bits his lip and frowns_.]
0	It was charming to have escaped all that!
0	The curtain went down on a titter and some groans.
0	[In a clear, cold voice.]
0	I tell you there is nothing.
0	The girl was standing there alone, with a look of triumph on her face.
0	At last everything was ready, and he was very pleased with his appearance.
0	And he told him his three dreams.
0	How could I repent of my sin when you, my love, were its fruit!
0	Look where your friend Robert Chiltern has got to by probity, hard work, and a sensible marriage with a good woman.
0	"There are worse things than capture," she answered.
0	So it was he who was misshapen and hunchbacked, foul to look at and grotesque.
0	I think you might have telegraphed for me when you heard of it first.
0	"Ugliness is one of the seven deadly sins, then?"
0	The heat was terribly oppressive, and the huge sunlight flamed like a monstrous dahlia with petals of yellow fire.
0	I will not dance, Tetrarch.
0	I don't think you should be so proud of that, though I am sure it must have been very pleasant.
0	This results not merely from the fact that nothing that one can imagine is worth doing, and that one can imagine everything, but from the subtle law that emotional forces, like the forces of the physical sphere, are limited in extent and energy.
0	It was said to have turned Lord Raker's wig grey in a single night, and had certainly made three of Lady Canterville's French governesses give warning before their month was up.
0	Virginia's eyes grew dim with tears, and she hid her face in her hands.
0	_She_ allowed of no compromise.
0	And I don’t care who is there.
0	I want you to send her an invitation for our party to-night.
0	Have you been twice married and once divorced, or twice divorced and once married?
0	No use beating about the confounded bush.
0	The harm is done by the serious, thoughtful, earnest journalists, who solemnly, as they are doing at present, will drag before the eyes of the public some incident in the private life of a great statesman, of a man who is a leader of political thought as he is a creator of political force, and invite the public to discuss the incident, to exercise authority in the matter, to give their views, and not merely to give their views, but to carry them into action, to dictate to the man upon all other points, to dictate to his party, to dictate to his country; in fact, to make themselves ridiculous, offensive, and harmful.
0	It can never be necessary to do what is not honourable.
0	And it is only fair to state, with regard to modern journalists, that they always apologise to one in private for what they have written against one in public.
0	And the Star-Child frowned and said to himself, ‘What is this that they say to me?
0	On the contrary, she occupies a rather high position in society.
0	Lady Chiltern, I will be quite frank with you.
0	But you are quite right, Dorian.
0	Now they have got the mysterious disappearance of an artist.
0	Was he the victim of a revolutionary outrage?
0	Rubens served as ambassador, and Goethe as state councillor, and Milton as Latin secretary to Cromwell.
0	it can’t be true—she spoke of enormous sums of money paid to this woman.
0	For every sin that he committed, a stain would fleck and wreck its fairness.
0	Lord Illingworth, every one has been congratulating me, Lady Hunstanton and Lady Caroline, and .
0	I love being scolded by her.
0	Let us be great friends.
0	Our lives revolve in curves of emotions.
0	"Can't you see your ideal in it?"
0	In the strangely simple economy of the world people only get what they give, and to those who have not enough imagination to penetrate the mere outward of things, and feel pity, what pity can be given save that of scorn?
0	I had no idea that it was one of the special things that the Fates had in store for me: that for a whole year of my life, indeed, I was to do little else.
0	All the chaps I know are in debt.
0	He had cleaned it many times, till there was no stain left upon it.
0	He is trying to finish a play for the Director of the Theatre, but he is too cold to write any more.
0	The public has always, and in every age, been badly brought up.
0	cried the original of the portrait, strolling across to him.
0	I don't know why I like you so much."
0	“Give me a red rose,” she cried, “and I will sing you my sweetest song.” But the Tree shook its head.
0	No, I'd sooner have a pink rose.
0	Some haggard women were seated at a table sewing.
0	Those of whose lives it forms the dominant note will always seem to the world to be pure visionaries.
0	They are continually asking Art to be popular, to please their want of taste, to flatter their absurd vanity, to tell them what they have been told before, to show them what they ought to be tired of seeing, to amuse them when they feel heavy after eating too much, and to distract their thoughts when they are wearied of their own stupidity.
0	Even now, as I am speaking, and speaking not against him but for him, there glides through the room the pageant of his persons.
0	The wine-sellers elbow their way through the crowd with great black skins on their shoulders.
0	She is like a woman who is dead.
0	Mr. Worthing has many troubles in his life.
0	The burden of this world is too great for one man to bear, and the world’s sorrow too heavy for one heart to suffer.’ ‘Sayest thou that in this house?’ said the young King, and he strode past the Bishop, and climbed up the steps of the altar, and stood before the image of Christ.
0	[LADY WINDERMERE _looks horribly frightened at this_.
0	It may have been for a caprice, or to quicken some hideous sense of power that was in him, or because she suspected something, or for no reason.
0	What a thoroughly bad man you must be!
0	I have been right, Basil, haven't I, to take my love out of poetry and to find my wife in Shakespeare's plays?
0	I have never seen any rose like it in all my life.
0	She was far too good-looking to be in any respectable household.
0	I am glad to say that I have entirely lost that faculty.
0	There should be a law passed to compel them all to marry within twelve months.
0	But there are some things in England— LADY HUNSTANTON.
0	Tuesday is always one of Mrs. Daubeny’s bad nights.
0	Besides it was his own suit.
0	it is horrible that I should have to ask you such a question—Robert, are you telling me the whole truth?
0	One would have said that there was a touch of cruelty in the mouth.
0	That is to say, if I were a perfect stranger, you would allow Gerald to go away with me, but as he is my own flesh and blood you won’t.
0	And the body is born young and grows old.
0	But this is a very serious error, and takes no cognisance of Criticism’s most perfect form, which is in its essence purely subjective, and seeks to reveal its own secret and not the secret of another.
0	In the sphere of actual life that is of course obvious.
0	How did you guess that?
0	I only wish I did.
0	The moral life of man forms part of the subject-matter of the artist, but the morality of art consists in the perfect use of an imperfect medium.
0	[Sternly, in a calm voice.]
0	But if what you tell me is true, I should like to have a serious talk about life with Lady Chiltern.
0	Not when they received a beautiful form.
0	That mighty and majestic prose of his, so fervid and so fiery-coloured in its noble eloquence, so rich in its elaborate symphonic music, so sure and certain, at its best, in subtle choice of word and epithet, is at least as great a work of art as any of those wonderful sunsets that bleach or rot on their corrupted canvases in England’s Gallery; greater indeed, one is apt to think at times, not merely because its equal beauty is more enduring, but on account of the fuller variety of its appeal, soul speaking to soul in those long-cadenced lines, not through form and colour alone, though through these, indeed, completely and without loss, but with intellectual and emotional utterance, with lofty passion and with loftier thought, with imaginative insight, and with poetic aim; greater, I always think, even as Literature is the greater art.
0	“It is not half as useful as Logic, for it does not prove anything, and it is always telling one of things that are not going to happen, and making one believe things that are not true.
0	Mercutio was almost as bad.
0	I said it fascinated me.
0	"It is the problem of slavery, and we try to solve it by amusing the slaves."
0	There are some who kill themselves, sire.
0	Manasseh, Issachar, Ozias, put out the torches.
0	He has refused to bow the knee to Baal, and after all, even if the man’s fine spirit did not revolt against the noisy assertions of realism, his style would be quite sufficient of itself to keep life at a respectful distance.
0	"I could not get rid of her.
0	Have you said good-night to my wife?
0	"Come, Alan, you must decide at once."
0	But the night wearies, and the light flickers in the lamp.
0	One night there flew over the city a little Swallow.
0	Hallward painted away with that marvellous bold touch of his, that had the true refinement and perfect delicacy that in art, at any rate comes only from strength.
0	[_Taking hold of her hand_.]
0	The son of man hath come.
0	She must come now as _mine_.
0	I should never be admitted!
0	You are to take Lord Windermere down to your club at once, and keep him there as long as possible.
0	Almost as great as a man’s!
0	"Prince Charming is what you like to be called, ain't it?"
0	I suppose you allude to that?
0	When the eunuchs saw me, their knees shook and they fell upon the ground in fear.
0	The painter stared at him.
0	The danger was half the excitement.
0	There is no use staying on.
0	There was—who was there, Caroline?
0	A cry of terror broke from Dorian Gray's lips, and he rushed between the painter and the screen.
0	I think it wrong that a wife should spy on her husband.
0	You look on me as being behind the age.—Well, I am!
0	"You can't approve of it, possibly.
0	"Here is a sovereign for you," said Dorian.
0	[Jack presses his hand convulsively.]
0	For a picture and a statue are not at war with Time.
0	Dorian did not answer for a few moments.
0	When the coffee and cigarettes had been brought and the man turned to go, he felt a wild desire to tell him to remain.
0	I don’t think that England should be represented abroad by an unmarried man, Jane.
0	His mother has nothing to give him but river water, so he is crying.
0	you admit, then, that the critic may occasionally be allowed to see the object as in itself it really is.
0	[Kisses her and rushes down the garden.]
0	I may not touch it.
0	What is it to you if she be pale or not?
0	How lovely that thing you are playing is!
0	However, I don’t care a bit.
0	Shakespeare might have met Rosencrantz and Guildenstern in the white streets of London, or seen the serving-men of rival houses bite their thumbs at each other in the open square; but Hamlet came out of his soul, and Romeo out of his passion.
0	And the rest of your life you could spend in contemplating your own perfections.
0	Champing his gilded oats, the Hippogriff will stand in our stalls, and over our heads will float the Blue Bird singing of beautiful and impossible things, of things that are lovely and that never happen, of things that are not and that should be.
0	What a sombre look the Tetrarch wears.
0	They are as a clown whose heart is broken.
0	But my name certainly is John.
0	_The Picture Gallery at Hunstanton_.
0	Why do you place us on monstrous pedestals?
0	He is afraid, this slave.
0	The pictorial glass of Germany is absolutely detestable.
0	In the farthest stable a light was glimmering.
0	Yes: writing has done much harm to writers.
0	My daughter, do not dance.
0	It is when one comes to the higher forms of the drama that the result of popular control is seen.
0	In their eyes prison is a tragedy in a man's life, a misfortune, a casuality, something that calls for sympathy in others.
0	Otherwise she would never consent to have a feather touched.
0	I will fight her to the death, as long as my wife knows nothing.
0	Families are so mixed nowadays.
0	I trust he will profit by it.
0	However, I must read the end of my article:— ‘What we have to do, what at any rate it is our duty to do, is to revive this old art of Lying.
0	They have to be told of it by other people, and they often entirely disbelieve them.
0	You seem to me to be living entirely for pleasure.
0	She is a woman who drags a chain like a guilty thing.
0	They contained the usual collection of cards, invitations to dinner, tickets for private views, programmes of charity concerts, and the like that are showered on fashionable young men every morning during the season.
0	Bad women, as they are termed, may have in them sorrow, repentance, pity, sacrifice.
0	Really, when I begin to reflect on the importance of my position, I am almost moved to tears.” “If you want to give pleasure to others,” cried the Roman Candle, “you had better keep yourself dry.” “Certainly,” exclaimed the Bengal Light, who was now in better spirits; “that is only common sense.” “Common sense, indeed!” said the Rocket indignantly; “you forget that I am very uncommon, and very remarkable.
0	The repetitions of pattern give us rest.
0	And when he passed through the villages the children mocked him, and threw stones at him, and the carlots would not suffer him even to sleep in the byres lest he might bring mildew on the stored corn, so foul was he to look at, and their hired men drave him away, and there was none who had pity on him.
0	The people, he says very wisely, and in the true spirit of Toynbee Hall, must always have ‘the best models constantly before their eyes.’ As is to be expected from one who was a painter, he is often extremely technical in his art criticisms.
0	That it was Christ's creed admits of no doubt.
0	With the abolition of private property, marriage in its present form must disappear.
0	And when you are away, Gerald .
0	She does not know what weakness or temptation is.
0	I wept over them tears of happiness and gratitude.’  He accordingly left the army, with its rough barrack-life and coarse mess-room tittle-tattle, and returned to Linden House, full of this new-born enthusiasm for culture.
0	But modern portraits by English painters, what of them?
0	For when I marry you, Rachel, there are some ambitions I shall have to surrender.
0	The couples separate in alarm.
0	I had given it to brutes that they might make it brutal, and to fools that they might turn it into a synonym for folly.
0	Canterbury can still show us the helm of the Black Prince, Westminster the robes of our kings, and in old St. Paul’s the very banner that had waved on Bosworth field was hung up by Richmond himself.
0	For her body I would give my soul, and for her love I would surrender heaven.
0	nothing at all, I believe.
0	I haven’t seen her for years, that is all.
0	Lord Henry felt as if he could hear Basil Hallward's heart beating, and wondered what was coming.
0	It is a very dangerous thing to know one’s friends.” “You had really better keep yourself dry,” said the Fire-balloon.
0	He told me once, with an air of pride, that his five bankruptcies were entirely due to 'The Bard,' as he insisted on calling him.
0	The History of Woman is very different.
0	His work is marred by struggle, violence and effort, and he passed not from emotion to form, but from thought to chaos.
0	In Bond Street he found a hansom with a good horse.
0	You are always looking at her!
0	What do you think this means, Lady Bracknell?
0	Ordinary riches can be stolen from a man.
0	You are not going, Caroline?
0	But tell me definitely, how did the Baron finally persuade you to—well, to do what you did?
0	If he shut the doors of the house of mourning against me, I would come back again and again and beg to be admitted, so that I might share in what I was entitled to share in.
0	It is as if one’s heart were beating itself to death in some empty hollow.
0	Tell me, is my mother there?’ And the Mole answered, ‘Thou hast blinded mine eyes.
0	‘I hold three things in high estimation,’ he says somewhere: ‘to sit lazily on an eminence that commands a rich prospect; to be shadowed by thick trees while the sun shines around me; and to enjoy solitude with the consciousness of neighbourhood.
0	I can quite understand a man accepting laws that protect private property, and admit of its accumulation, as long as he himself is able under those conditions to realise some form of beautiful and intellectual life.
0	_His wife takes it up and reads it_.]
0	We had a terrible scene.
0	Where there is sorrow there is holy ground.
0	He was sitting by the window, watching the ruined gold of the yellowing trees fly through the air, and the red leaves dancing madly down the long avenue.
0	The same words that twenty years ago I wrote to her father!
0	When they caught sight of Don Pedro they scowled at him, and some of them looked terrified, for only a few weeks before he had had two of their tribe hanged for sorcery in the market-place at Seville, but the pretty Infanta charmed them as she leaned back peeping over her fan with her great blue eyes, and they felt sure that one so lovely as she was could never be cruel to anybody.
0	For her there is no joy, no peace, no atonement.
0	Then you are going to allow your greatest friend, Robert Chiltern, to be ruined, rather than marry some one who really has considerable attractions left.
0	Again and again he came up, and each time that he did so he brought with him a beautiful pearl.
0	"All right, Uncle George, I'll tell her, but it won't have any effect.
0	he murmured, stepping down from the platform.
0	"Good God, Dorian, what a lesson!
0	A bee flew in and buzzed round the blue-dragon bowl that, filled with sulphur-yellow roses, stood before him.
0	Those finely shaped fingers could never have clutched a knife for sin, nor those smiling lips have cried out on God and goodness.
0	Then he put on his hat, and ran up to the Professor’s house with the rose in his hand.
0	And it has all been to you no more than the sound of music.
0	I have spent a delightful evening.
0	You will become sallow, and hollow-cheeked, and dull-eyed.
0	I find I have a headache after all, and a walk might do it good.
0	And the thing shall be done to-night, for I would not that the Sun, who is my father, should see that there is in my city a man whom I cannot slay.” ‘But I answered him, “The gold that is here is thine, and the silver also is thine, and thine are the precious jewels and the things of price.
0	If you do, you have never understood Japanese art at all.
0	He broke from her with an oath and rushed to the corner of the street, but Dorian Gray had disappeared.
0	But we know _that_, dear Margaret, about _your_ house.
0	Quite the dragon of good taste.
0	The former may be fine.
0	To us, at any rate, the ΒΙΟΣ ΘΕΩΡΗΤΙΚΟΣ is the true ideal.
0	Her eyes were half open, her hair rippled round her in crisp curling gold, and from her lips and cheek the bloom of maidenhood had not yet departed.
0	But he does it in a horrid confidential way.
0	You used to stir my imagination.
0	I am afraid it is true.
0	"You might keep some of your kisses for me, Sibyl, I think," said the lad with a good-natured grumble.
0	I heard what you said.
0	A woman who has sinned should be punished, shouldn’t she?
0	You are our greatest friend, Lord Goring.
0	But even if he had a thousand loves, you must stay with your child.
0	Let me kiss thy mouth.
0	A publicist, nowadays, is a man who bores the community with the details of the illegalities of his private life.
0	But the sympathy of the artistic temperament is necessarily with what has found expression.
0	That is enough.’  But an appreciation of Milton is, as the late Rector of Lincoln remarked once, the reward of consummate scholarship.
0	He winced at the memory of all that he had suffered, and for a moment the same curious feeling of loathing for Basil Hallward that had made him kill him as he sat in the chair came back to him, and he grew cold with passion.
0	What was the story in the confessions of the remorseful Academician that made you laugh?
0	You must not forget that, Sibyl.
0	Mr. Otis was a good deal distressed at Lord Canterville's refusal, and begged him to reconsider his decision, but the good-natured peer was quite firm, and finally induced the Minister to allow his daughter to retain the present the ghost had given her, and when, in the spring of 1890, the young Duchess of Cheshire was presented at the Queen's first drawing-room on the occasion of her marriage, her jewels were the universal theme of admiration.
0	Fortunately for him she had on the other side Lord Faudel, a most intelligent middle-aged mediocrity, as bald as a ministerial statement in the House of Commons, with whom she was conversing in that intensely earnest manner which is the one unpardonable error, as he remarked once himself, that all really good people fall into, and from which none of them ever quite escape.
0	Nobody with the true historical sense ever dreams of blaming Nero, or scolding Tiberius, or censuring Cæsar Borgia.
0	How very, very charming those gold-tipped cigarettes of yours are, Lord Alfred.
0	What hast thou to do with us, and what we suffer?’ ‘Are not the rich and the poor brothers?’ asked the young King.
0	Not a subject on which much eloquence is possible.
0	This young dandy who was making love to her could mean her no good.
0	When you are ill you shouldn't act.
0	And when the Priest reached the shore he saw the young Fisherman lying drowned in the surf, and clasped in his arms was the body of the little Mermaid.
0	He had taken the flower out of his coat, and was smelling it, or pretending to do so.
0	But I beg of you to do this.
0	But it is not, Robert; tell me it is not.
0	The English climate doesn’t suit me.
0	They were built out of music,        And so not built at all,     And therefore built for ever.
0	But I am so ignorant of the world, Lord Illingworth.
0	Under these circumstances, Lord Canterville, I feel sure that you will recognize how impossible it would be for me to allow them to remain in the possession of any member of my family; and, indeed, all such vain gauds and toys, however suitable or necessary to the dignity of the British aristocracy, would be completely out of place among those who have been brought up on the severe, and I believe immortal, principles of Republican simplicity.
0	He himself could not help wondering at the calm of his demeanour, and for a moment felt keenly the terrible pleasure of a double life.
0	But I certainly shall not run away, now that you have asked me to stop.
0	“I tell you what, you are very rude; and, after all, who are you?
0	It is to criticism that the future belongs.
0	"Quick, quick," cried the Ghost, "or it will be too late," and in a moment the wainscoting had closed behind them, and the Tapestry Chamber was empty.
0	Surely thou wilt not send me without a heart into another world?’ But the young Fisherman listened not to his Soul, but called on the little Mermaid and said, ‘Love is better than wisdom, and more precious than riches, and fairer than the feet of the daughters of men.
0	Her body was as white ivory, and her tail was of silver and pearl.
0	While, as regards any historical accuracy in dress, Lord Lytton, in an article in the _Nineteenth Century_, has laid it down as a dogma of art that archæology is entirely out of place in the presentation of any of Shakespeare’s plays, and the attempt to introduce it one of the stupidest pedantries of an age of prigs.
0	You remember that landscape of mine, for which Agnew offered me such a huge price but which I would not part with?
0	I will never speak to you again.
0	Bernhardt present       my play in Paris, that vivid centre of art, where       religious dramas are often performed.
0	The water is round my feet, and the very air is bitter with storm.
0	On a table by the side of the couch lay a mighty scimitar of steel.
0	A silly fair-haired woman with no chin.
0	wherefore didst thou not look at me, Jokanaan?
0	Its trunk was painted with vermilion and turmeric, and over its ears it had a net of crimson silk cord.
0	[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _enters from behind_.
0	Well, you are certainly marrying a very clever woman!
0	in what a wild hour of madness he had killed his friend!
0	Yes, we can put the earth back six hundred courses and make ourselves one with the great Florentine, kneel at the same altar with him, and share his rapture and his scorn.
0	Transcribed from the 1915 Methuen and Co. edition by David Price, email ccx074@pglaf.org                           [Picture: Book cover]                                 * * * * *                                 * * * * *                                 * * * * *                             _Seventh Edition_ _First Published_                                                 1891 _First Issued by Methuen and Co._ (_Limited Editions on           1908 Handmade Paper and Japanese Vellum_) _Third Edition_ (_F’cap._ 8_vo_)                                  1909 _Fourth Edition_ ( ,, )                                           1911 _Fifth Edition_ ( ,, )                                            1913 _Sixth Edition_ (_Crown_ 4_to_, _Illustrated by Jessie            1915 King_) _Seventh Edition_ (_F’cap._ 8_vo_)                                1915 IT was the night before the day fixed for his coronation, and the young King was sitting alone in his beautiful chamber.
0	That book you sent me so fascinated me that I forgot how the time was going."
0	To an artist so creative as the critic, what does subject-matter signify?
0	At the corner of Grosvenor Square and South Audley Street, a man passed him in the mist, walking very fast and with the collar of his grey ulster turned up.
0	What is it but canvas and colour?
0	[_With a cry of pain_.]
0	[_Looking at him in surprise_.]
0	There are many other forms.
0	We toil for them all day long, and they heap up gold in their coffers, and our children fade away before their time, and the faces of those we love become hard and evil.
0	Yes; there are suggestive things in Individualism.
0	I think seventy an ideal age for a man.
0	At least he thought so.
0	Gerald, come near to me.
0	I have no doubt of it.
0	Man is many things, but he is not rational.
0	I shall be here at eleven," said Dorian.
0	It is right that they should be punished, but don’t let them be the only ones to suffer.
0	A woman who didn’t love me?
0	Besides, he is a very great prophet.
0	as Lord Henry had once said.
0	I love her more than anything in the world.
0	My hands are all wet with these roses.
0	It is Criticism that, recognising no position as final, and refusing to bind itself by the shallow shibboleths of any sect or school, creates that serene philosophic temper which loves truth for its own sake, and loves it not the less because it knows it to be unattainable.
0	"They create love in our natures.
0	The song of Isaiah, 'He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief: and we hid as it were our faces from him,' had seemed to him to prefigure himself, and in him the prophecy was fulfilled.
0	And then he fell back again, and lay quite still.
0	For that we should be grateful.
0	The moon is cold and chaste.
0	But there are many tragedies in her family, besides this affair of the curate.
0	She dragged it out again and assured me that I had spoiled her life.
0	For that there can be no forgiveness.
0	The longer I live, Dorian, the more keenly I feel that whatever was good enough for our fathers is not good enough for us.
0	"How late you are, Harry!"
0	There is no thing more precious than a human soul, nor any earthly thing that can be weighed with it.
0	Suddenly he threw his cigarette away, took hold of her hand, and said to her, "Virginia, a wife should have no secrets from her husband."
0	"I understand what you mean, and I believe in this girl.
0	But, my dear Lady Chiltern, I think, if you will allow me to say so, that in practical life— LADY CHILTERN.
0	"You see your servant made me quite at home, Dorian.
0	It is a just law.
0	Then he bit his lip.
0	I can’t bear so upright a gentleman, so honourable an English gentleman, being so shamefully deceived, and so— MRS. CHEVELEY.
0	other countries over sea, better, wiser, and less unjust lands.
0	And yet I have told thee but a tithe of what was there.
0	Why does he not cry out, this man?
0	Do not dance, my daughter.
0	On reaching the spot, however, a terrible sight met his gaze.
0	[_Comes down L.C._] LORD WINDERMERE.
0	It is most fortunate that you were not thought of at the time.
0	The appearance of Jupiter on his eagle, thunderbolt in hand, of Juno with her peacocks, and of Iris with her many-coloured bow; the Amazon masque and the masque of the Five Worthies, may all be regarded as archæological; and the vision which Posthumus sees in prison of Sicilius Leonatus—‘an old man, attired like a warrior, leading an ancient matron’—is clearly so.
0	You have told me that the highest criticism deals with art, not as expressive, but as impressive purely, and is consequently both creative and independent, is in fact an art by itself, occupying the same relation to creative work that creative work does to the visible world of form and colour, or the unseen world of passion and of thought.
0	You shall see the thing that you fancy only God can see."
0	Heroes of mist and mountain?
0	After all, there is nothing like Nature, is there?
0	‘Our master!’ cried the weaver, bitterly.
0	It is well to have learned that.
0	LADY BASILDON, _seeing this_, _rises at once and takes his arm_.]
0	My nerves are certainly very much shattered, and I require rest.” Then a little Frog, with bright jewelled eyes, and a green mottled coat, swam up to him.
0	LORD CAVERSHAM _comes up to his son_.]
0	Can a man tell what will come to pass?
0	Fly over my city, little Swallow, and tell me what you see there.” So the Swallow flew over the great city, and saw the rich making merry in their beautiful houses, while the beggars were sitting at the gates.
0	And now, dear Mr. Worthing, I will not intrude any longer into a house of sorrow.
0	I said he was engaged to be married.
0	But let us go into another room.
0	That it was I whom you thought was concealed in a room in your house, at half-past ten o’clock at night?
0	The only people who seemed to enjoy it were the great horned Owls.
0	There was simply the passion of the spectator, with perhaps a flicker of triumph in his eyes.
0	Oh, I hope Mrs. Cheveley will stay here a little.
0	They did not return home till nine o'clock, when they had a light supper.
0	I should so much like dear Mrs. Daubeny to hear her on the violin.
0	And yet what interested me most in her was not her beauty, but her character, her entire vagueness of character.
0	She loved him.—Before her child was born—for she had a child—she implored him for the child’s sake to marry her, that the child might have a name, that her sin might not be visited on the child, who was innocent.
0	I have been waiting here all the morning to see either her or Robert.
0	* * * * * And one evening he came to the gate of a strong-walled city that stood by a river, and, weary and footsore though he was, he made to enter in.
0	ROSALIE (_Maid_)            _Miss Winifred Dolan_.
0	I don't care," he added with a sigh.
0	No; you must settle now!
0	We should, at any rate, have no preferences, no prejudices, no partisan feeling of any kind.
0	The development of the habit of foreign travel, the increased commercial intercourse between countries, and the frequency of diplomatic missions, gave every nation many opportunities of studying the various forms of contemporary dress.
0	But I told him I wouldn’t give him an answer till to-morrow.
0	There was a stately grace about these slim Spanish children as they glided about, the boys with their large-plumed hats and short fluttering cloaks, the girls holding up the trains of their long brocaded gowns, and shielding the sun from their eyes with huge fans of black and silver.
0	But tell me, Robert, did you never suffer any regret for what you had done?
0	Certain persons who were present related it to me.
0	It made him suffer even to hear it.
0	Why was it broken off?
0	In England I suppose that would hardly be considered en règle.
0	There will be a large accumulation of property.
0	I have not the smallest idea.
0	He has all the appearance of it, I must say.
0	He took sabbatarianism as a type of the things that should be set at nought.
0	It is what is hidden behind everything.
0	Was he really to confess?
0	Lord Illingworth’s views of life and mine are too different.
0	His miracles seem to me to be as exquisite as the coming of spring, and quite as natural.
0	That they may be entirely separate.
0	What they are making of us are false idols merely.
0	We practical men like to see things, not to read about them.
0	From the tea-houses comes the sound of the guitar, and the opium-smokers with their white smiling faces look out at the passers-by.
0	Besides, every experience is of value, and whatever one may say against marriage, it is certainly an experience.
0	The most obvious and the vulgarest form in which this is shown is in the case of the silly boys who, after reading the adventures of Jack Sheppard or Dick Turpin, pillage the stalls of unfortunate apple-women, break into sweet-shops at night, and alarm old gentlemen who are returning home from the city by leaping out on them in suburban lanes, with black masks and unloaded revolvers.
0	It is absolutely necessary that I should see her before you do.
0	Without her we should forget the true ideals.
0	I grew afraid that others would know of my idolatry.
0	I remember having read somewhere, in some strange book, that when the gods wish to punish us they answer our prayers.
0	"If you try to look at it, Basil, on my word of honour I will never speak to you again as long as I live.
0	All good hats are made out of nothing."
0	A _grande passion_ is the privilege of people who have nothing to do.
0	But supposing it was something else?
0	May I have the pleasure?
0	In literature mere egotism is delightful.
0	So simple and so sincere!
0	From their collective force Humanity gains much in material prosperity.
0	Not a year passes in England without somebody disappearing.
0	May I ask you--are you engaged to be married to this young lady?
0	"I am afraid it is not Harry, Mr. Gray," answered a shrill voice.
0	In fact, I have never been married, and I never intend to be.
0	That was what he was waiting for.
0	What answer may I give the Tetrarch from the Princess?
0	"No, I will come down," he said, struggling to his feet.
0	I want to come back to London.
0	But in the English Church a man succeeds, not through his capacity for belief, but through his capacity for disbelief.
0	That is a dreadful word.
0	It was my one desire.
0	The Greeks were quite right there.
0	But God has given us a lonely house.
0	It is a very remarkable country, especially considering its youth.
0	Personally I cannot understand how anybody manages to exist in the country, if anybody who is anybody does.
0	It is a great nuisance.
0	She is really wonderful, and full of surprises.
0	They lived on their emotions.
0	I haven't quite finished my tea yet!
0	I remember, that she was a genius in the daytime and a beauty at night.
0	He decorated the base and stem and ears with pattern of dainty olive-leaf, or foliated acanthus, or curved and crested wave.
0	It was at my aunt, Lady Agatha's.
0	I wish he would arrive at some conclusion.
0	I don't think the name suits me at all.
0	I don't think there is much likelihood, Jack, of you and Miss Fairfax being united.
0	But you wouldn’t take anything.
0	Through constant change, and through constant change alone, he will find his true unity.
0	After slaughter of Duncan, Macbeth appears in his night-gown as if aroused from sleep; Timon ends in rags the play he had begun in splendour; Richard flatters the London citizens in a suit of mean and shabby armour, and, as soon as he has stepped in blood to the throne, marches through the streets in crown and George and Garter; the climax of _The Tempest_ is reached when Prospero, throwing off his enchanter’s robes, sends Ariel for his hat and rapier, and reveals himself as the great Italian Duke; the very Ghost in _Hamlet_ changes his mystical apparel to produce different effects; and as for Juliet, a modern playwright would probably have laid her out in her shroud, and made the scene a scene of horror merely, but Shakespeare arrays her in rich and gorgeous raiment, whose loveliness makes the vault ‘a feasting presence full of light,’ turns the tomb into a bridal chamber, and gives the cue and motive for Romeo’s speech of the triumph of Beauty over Death.
0	Some of the boys pranced about on richly-caparisoned hobby-horses brandishing long javelins with gay streamers of bright ribands attached to them; others went on foot waving their scarlet cloaks before the bull, and vaulting lightly over the barrier when he charged them; and as for the bull himself, he was just like a live bull, though he was only made of wicker-work and stretched hide, and sometimes insisted on running round the arena on his hind legs, which no live bull ever dreams of doing.
0	The Greeks, upon the other hand, regarded writing simply as a method of chronicling.
0	He was flushed with excitement and pleasure, and looked extraordinarily handsome.
0	‘When it was noon a cloud of red dust rose up from the flat rim of the land.
0	I called with Lady Markby simply to ask whether an ornament, a jewel, that I lost somewhere last night, had been found at the Chilterns’.
0	I told him he was old enough to know better.
0	Have you tried a good reputation?
0	said the painter, keeping his eyes fixed on the ground.
0	the higher things of life, how fine they are!” said the Duck; “and that reminds me how hungry I feel”: and she swam away down the stream, saying, “Quack, quack, quack.” “Come back!
0	He was trembling from head to foot.
0	I prefer women with a past.
0	‘And at dawn we rose and knocked at the gate of the city.
0	I congratulate you on it.
0	I will not look at things, I will not suffer things to look at me.
0	He passed by the cathedral tower, where the white marble angels were sculptured.
0	Well, I don't see how I could possibly manage to do that.
0	A diamond snake-brooch with a ruby, a rather large ruby.
0	"I cannot do it," he said, mechanically, as though words could alter things.
0	What we want are unpractical people who see beyond the moment, and think beyond the day.
0	But he is sorry now he wrote it, very sorry.
0	How shallow were the arbitrary definitions of ordinary psychologists!
0	If you imagine he is quite happy in such a position, you are mistaken.
0	He shall be clothed in scarlet and purple.
0	Grief, or the plague, as the court physician stated, or, as some suggested, a swift Italian poison administered in a cup of spiced wine, slew, within an hour of her wakening, the white girl who had given him birth, and as the trusty messenger who bare the child across his saddle-bow stooped from his weary horse and knocked at the rude door of the goatherd’s hut, the body of the Princess was being lowered into an open grave that had been dug in a deserted churchyard, beyond the city gates, a grave where it was said that another body was also lying, that of a young man of marvellous and foreign beauty, whose hands were tied behind him with a knotted cord, and whose breast was stabbed with many red wounds.
0	Mine happen to have failed, yours happen to have succeeded.
0	The personality of man will be very wonderful.
0	Beautiful things began to be made, beautiful colours came from the dyer’s hand, beautiful patterns from the artist’s brain, and the use of beautiful things and their value and importance were set forth.
0	They make one look so plain, so good and so intellectual.
0	There was nothing to fear.
0	Don’t hold me—I’ll kill him!
0	Turn round and talk to me.
0	"He bores me dreadfully, almost as much as he bores her.
0	I have been waiting for you in your library ever since nine o'clock.
0	Please get me a glass of water.
0	Where there is no style a standard must be impossible.
0	Lord Henry laughed and rose.
0	Selfishness is not living as one wishes to live, it is asking others to live as one wishes to live.
0	He knew the trail of every animal, and could track the hare by its delicate footprints, and the boar by the trampled leaves.
0	I wanted my success when I was young.
0	Such things are less than the yellow trumpet of one daffodil of the field, far less than the meanest of the visible arts, for, just as Nature is matter struggling into mind, so Art is mind expressing itself under the conditions of matter, and thus, even in the lowliest of her manifestations, she speaks to both sense and soul alike.
0	Lord Henry shrugged his shoulders.
0	They are subjects for study, like everything else.
0	"You must admit, Harry, that women give to men the very gold of their lives."
0	And as regards the Civil Wars of the Roses we have many elaborate genealogies of the seven sons of Edward the Third; the claims of the rival Houses of York and Lancaster to the throne are discussed at length; and if the English aristocracy will not read Shakespeare as a poet, they should certainly read him as a sort of early Peerage.
0	I am so sorry you didn’t.
0	That is why I don’t want my boy to be with him.
0	What a dreadful experience that is!
0	I have passed through every possible mood of suffering.
0	I have had the arms of Rosalind around me, and kissed Juliet on the mouth."
0	As he closed the door behind him, Dorian Gray touched the bell, and in a few minutes Victor appeared with the lamps and drew the blinds down.
0	So she left a son, did she?
0	Fill thou my cup, my well-beloved.
0	I'm not a Bunburyist at all.
0	Sorrow, then, and all that it teaches one, is my new world.
0	The affair lasted for three days .
0	And the priests and the high officers knelt down and said to him, ‘It was prophesied of old that on this day should come he who was to rule over us.
0	[Miss Prism bows her head in shame.]
0	“We don’t know,” answered the children; “he has gone away.” “You must tell him to be sure and come here to-morrow,” said the Giant.
0	He belongs to you and not to me.
0	She didn’t leave a rag on her.
0	We are starting for India at the end of this month.
0	It is a great bore, and, I need hardly say, a terrible disappointment to me, but the fact is I have just had a telegram to say that my poor friend Bunbury is very ill again.
0	Now, it must be admitted, fogs are carried to excess.
0	I had left my latch-key at home, and my servant had to let me in.
0	You ask me about Henry Ashton and young Perth.
0	I did not sell myself for money.
0	The Tetrarch has forbidden it.
0	I fear it is impossible, Princess.
0	It is said that He is now in Samaria.
0	For, after all, even you must admit that it is much more difficult to do a thing than to talk about it.
0	Let us hope that she was not.
0	I am extremely fond of him, as you know, and odd though it may seem to you, I admired his conduct last night immensely.
0	Every single work of art is the fulfilment of a prophecy: for every work of art is the conversion of an idea into an image.
0	A house bought with the price of dishonour.
0	Then--but I don't know how to explain it to you.
0	When critics disagree, the artist is in accord with himself.
0	His body has never been discovered, but his guilty spirit still haunts the Chase.
0	When Lord Illingworth knows Mrs. Arbuthnot better he will change his mind.
0	Her body swayed, while she danced, as a plant sways in the water.
0	You have a splendid position, but it is your splendid position that makes you so vulnerable.
0	Her mother is perfectly unbearable.
0	Ah, the English young lady is the dragon of good taste, is she not?
0	We must bear away the body to another place.
0	My money may be of no use to him now.
0	When after two months in the infirmary I was transferred here, and found myself growing gradually better in physical health, I was filled with rage.
0	"The same flesh and blood as one's self!
0	In hers he saw a wild appeal for mercy.
0	And so, last night you ruined my life for me—yes, ruined it!
0	I am not talking of the great imaginatively-realised Individualism of such poets as I have mentioned, but of the great actual Individualism latent and potential in mankind generally.
0	"Let us go to the theatre to-night," said Lord Henry.
0	It obviously follows that the more punishment is inflicted the more crime is produced, and most modern legislation has clearly recognised this, and has made it its task to diminish punishment as far as it thinks it can.
0	But it has not been so.
0	Perhaps of them and their authority one has spoken enough.
0	The half that is mine shall be thine also.” ‘And I did a strange thing, but what I did matters not, for in a cave that is but a day’s journey from this place have, I hidden the Ring of Riches.
0	A woman’s life revolves in curves of emotions.
0	I wish I had known it was your birthday, Lady Windermere.
0	He whom the mourning of his widow taught to drink the sweet wormwood of pain, tells us of Nella praying in her lonely bed, and we learn from the mouth of Buonconte how a single tear may save a dying sinner from the fiend.
0	"I don't think it can be the fault of the Paragon Detergent," said Washington, "for I have tried it with everything.
0	You would lose your way in the labyrinth."
0	Did he become angry with you, and say anything that was unkind or true?
0	I gave him a little box of perfumes and ear-rings wrought in silver, and now he has killed himself!
0	It is a beautiful brooch.
0	"You don't understand what friendship is, Harry," he murmured--"or what enmity is, for that matter.
0	“To-night I go to Egypt,” said the Swallow, and he was in high spirits at the prospect.
0	It may be necessary to do something desperate.
0	But at last he knew that he was going to die.
0	They have made private terms with the enemy, and sold their birthright for very bad pottage.
0	I thought how tragic it would be if you were wasted.
0	"Oh, please don't, Lord Henry.
0	A wet Sunday, an uncouth Christian in a mackintosh, a ring of sickly white faces under a broken roof of dripping umbrellas, and a wonderful phrase flung into the air by shrill hysterical lips--it was really very good in its way, quite a suggestion.
0	With people of our own rank it is different.
0	Indeed he would have been very much surprised at any one classing his plays with ‘fairy tales,’ as Lord Lytton does; for one of his aims was to create for England a national historical drama, which should deal with incidents with which the public was well acquainted, and with heroes that lived in the memory of a people.
0	It is so easy for people to have sympathy with suffering.
0	I heard it to-night by chance.
0	Never, in a brilliant and uninterrupted career of three hundred years, had he been so grossly insulted.
0	Take my advice, Lady Chiltern, and do not accept a sacrifice so great.
0	"There is no such thing as a good influence, Mr. Gray.
0	And not a bad thing either.
0	Dear Uncle Jack is so very serious!
0	It is your daughter who is sick.
0	As it had killed the painter, so it would kill the painter's work, and all that that meant.
0	All I do know is that life cannot be understood without much charity, cannot be lived without much charity.
0	I must find you a nice wife.
0	Hardly had he finished this awful oath when, from the red-tiled roof of a distant homestead, a cock crew.
0	The star of the Garter glittered upon his breast.
0	You are right; we must hide the body.
0	This fraudulent speculation— MRS. CHEVELEY.
0	In matters of religion, it is simply the opinion that has survived.
0	Probably no one deserved anything.
0	[GERALD _sits down betide his mother_.
0	And as a high moral tone can hardly be said to conduce very much to either one's health or one's happiness, in order to get up to town I have always pretended to have a younger brother of the name of Ernest, who lives in the Albany, and gets into the most dreadful scrapes.
0	And now that I think of it I have never heard any man mention his brother.
0	They tore up the cactus by its roots, and trampled on the scarlet blossoms.
0	You speak with strange feeling, Gilbert.
0	You are very jealous of Mrs. Erlynne’s honour.
0	I have brought him up to be a good man.
0	You said you’d heard— [_Whispering to him_.]
0	Do you suggest, Miss Fairfax, that I entrapped Ernest into an engagement?
0	And the Giant’s heart melted as he looked out.
0	No one else is to be admitted, under any circumstances.
0	Why, perhaps the Prince and Princess may go to live in a country where there is a deep river, and perhaps they may have one only son, a little fair-haired boy with violet eyes like the Prince himself; and perhaps some day he may go out to walk with his nurse; and perhaps the nurse may go to sleep under a great elder-tree; and perhaps the little boy may fall into the deep river and be drowned.
0	He has the nature of the poet, and he is asked to grapple with the common complexity of cause and effect, with life in its practical realisation, of which he knows nothing, not with life in its ideal essence, of which he knows so much.
0	It is far too fragile.
0	Then a passionate celibacy is all that any of us can look forward to.
0	I never had a mother to save, or shame.
0	He waited and held his breath.
0	"Yes, it was very curious.
0	I can’t believe it of him—I can’t.
0	The new Individualism is the new Hellenism.
0	What is needed is Individualism.
0	My first impressions of people are never wrong.
0	Then he turned back and looked at her.
0	It was generally felt that, as she had been frightened by the ghost for more than fifty years of her life, she had a right to see the last of him.
0	It has shown us that we are never less free than when we try to act.
0	Don't let us talk about it any more, and don't try to persuade me that the first good action I have done for years, the first little bit of self-sacrifice I have ever known, is really a sort of sin.
0	Why I shall never act well again."
0	I am always telling that to your poor uncle, but he never seems to take much notice .
0	I can’t imagine how I made such a silly mistake.
0	Moralists had, as a rule, regarded it as a mode of warning, had claimed for it a certain ethical efficacy in the formation of character, had praised it as something that taught us what to follow and showed us what to avoid.
0	She tried to look picturesque, but only succeeded in being untidy.
0	when you have lost it you won't smile.... People say sometimes that beauty is only superficial.
0	And the young King wept, and said: ‘Who were these men, and for what were they seeking?’ ‘For rubies for a king’s crown,’ answered one who stood behind him.
0	Little Hans was very much distressed at times, as he was afraid his flowers would think he had forgotten them, but he consoled himself by the reflection that the Miller was his best friend.
0	He ran across the soft Moorish carpets, and opened the door.
0	Naked were her feet, and they moved over the carpet like little white pigeons.
0	Why had he worn its livery?
0	"My dear Dorian," answered Lord Henry, "you merely fainted.
0	How clever of you to guess it!
0	It held the secret of his life, and told his story.
0	Well, Arthur, I suppose this romantic interview may be regarded as at an end.
0	Yes, it had been conscience.
0	That did not change him.
0	All subtle arts belonged to him also.
0	"How serious you both are!"
0	he asked in a low voice.
0	On the production of "Salomé" by the New Stage Club in May, 1905,[1] the dramatic critics again expressed themselves vehemently, vociferating their regrets that the play had been dragged from its obscurity.
0	Her death has all the pathetic uselessness of martyrdom, all its wasted beauty.
0	I suspect him of being untruthful.
0	But with me she will not dance, for I have no red rose to give her”; and he flung himself down on the grass, and buried his face in his hands, and wept.
0	Unless there are slaves to do the ugly, horrible, uninteresting work, culture and contemplation become almost impossible.
0	The whole family gazed at her in mute amazement, but she was quite grave and serious; and, turning round, she led them through the opening in the wainscoting down a narrow secret corridor, Washington following with a lighted candle, which he had caught up from the table.
0	You must leave Mrs. Erlynne alone.
0	"Come upstairs, Basil," he said quietly.
0	You, Alan, you must change him, and everything that belongs to him, into a handful of ashes that I may scatter in the air."
0	It is only when one has lost all things, that one knows that one possesses it.
0	Enter Lady Bracknell and Gwendolen.]
0	We can choose our day and select our hour.
0	The flies buzzed round the table and crawled over the stained cloth.
0	"That is certainly better than being adored," he answered, toying with some fruits.
0	They have looked too long on the moon.
0	I think you had better come over here, John.
0	That is not the least of the tasks in store for the critical spirit.
0	Neither the floods nor the great waters can quench my passion.
0	He would send you off with Lord Illingworth at once.
0	It dies at the moment of its energy.
0	He felt as if the load had been lifted from him already.
0	Early the next morning the Mayor was walking in the square below in company with the Town Councillors.
0	We looked upon _him_ as being such a model husband, but I am afraid there is no doubt about it.
0	You would feel that the look in his eyes was false, his voice false, his touch false, his passion false.
0	Dorian took the note up and read it carefully.
0	You would fancy she was looking for dead things.
0	why don’t you tell me what to do?
0	Every second he kept glancing at the clock.
0	The silence, for he made no other observation, became intolerable to her.
0	You have drunk deeply of everything.
0	‘When I sought to enter, the guards stopped me and asked of me who I was.
0	I don't want to see him alone.
0	Great passions are for the great of soul, and great events can be seen only by those who are on a level with them.
0	But, in the eyes of the thinker, the real harm that emotional sympathy does is that it limits knowledge, and so prevents us from solving any single social problem.
0	That they should have called Wordsworth an immoral poet, was only to be expected.
0	"Yes; horribly unjust of you.
0	I keep science for Life.
0	All fine imaginative work is self-conscious and deliberate.
0	The man was quite impassive and waited for his orders.
0	With your views on life I wonder you married at all.
0	I always said I had a brother!
0	Ah, nowadays we are all of us so hard up, that the only pleasant things to pay _are_ compliments.
0	They had reached the great flight of steps that led from the conservatory on to the terrace.
0	I wonder shall I always be glad?"
0	It is the only tyranny that lasts.
0	Some one wrote to me in trouble, 'When you are not on your pedestal you are not interesting.'
0	I know nothing about the feelings of parents,” said the Water-rat; “I am not a family man.
0	Well, I know, of course, how important it is not to keep a business engagement, if one wants to retain any sense of the beauty of life, but still I think you had better wait till Uncle Jack arrives.
0	We are trying to build up life, Lady Hunstanton, on a better, truer, purer basis than life rests on here.
0	‘As I passed across the court two veiled women looked down from a balcony and cursed me.
0	There is no evidence at all that I have ever been christened by anybody.
0	May I have the pleasure of escorting you to the music-room, Mademoiselle?
0	There is much with which I entirely disagree.
0	And that makes me so nervous.
0	Out of Shakespeare's sonnets they draw, to their own hurt it may be, the secret of his love and make it their own; they look with new eyes on modern life, because they have listened to one of Chopin's nocturnes, or handled Greek things, or read the story of the passion of some dead man for some dead woman whose hair was like threads of fine gold, and whose mouth was as a pomegranate.
0	I have a crystal, into which it is not lawful for a woman to look, nor may young men behold it until they have been beaten with rods.
0	[_R.C._]  I shall do nothing of the kind.
0	You and I, dear Mrs. Arbuthnot, are behind the age.
0	You have told me that it is more difficult to talk about a thing than to do it, and that to do nothing at all is the most difficult thing in the world; you have told me that all Art is immoral, and all thought dangerous; that criticism is more creative than creation, and that the highest criticism is that which reveals in the work of Art what the artist had not put there; that it is exactly because a man cannot do a thing that he is the proper judge of it; and that the true critic is unfair, insincere, and not rational.
0	Oh, how I loved thee!
0	It has purple leaves, and a star in its heart, and its juice is as white as milk.
0	I have given you my wheelbarrow, and now you are going to give me your plank.
0	To get into the best society, nowadays, one has either to feed people, amuse people, or shock people—that is all!
0	cried Dorian, leaning forward in his chair.
0	Indeed he seemed quite happy and full of the highest spirits.
0	My dear fellow, you mustn’t go yet.
0	And she who feeds them dances for their pleasure, and sometimes she dances on her hands and at other times she dances with her feet.
0	As for ruins, we are trying to build up something that will last longer than brick or stone.
0	surely some evil will befall some one.
0	I am a celibate, madam.
0	There are those who say he is Elias.
0	He flew so high that the people were afraid that he would never come down again.
0	I shunned suffering and sorrow of every kind.
0	The man bowed and retired.
0	My dear Arthur, you are not going?
0	I was staying at a little inn by myself."
0	I must go back—no; I can’t go back, my letter has put me in their power—Arthur would not take me back!
0	It seems to me that I am a little in the way here.
0	_The Sphinx is not so incommunicable_.
0	Nay, but it is infamous.
0	On the contrary, I am going to render him a great service.
0	And much good may be done by means of a magic lantern, or a missionary, or some popular amusement of that kind.
0	What did you mean by that?
0	Women kneel so gracefully; men don’t.
0	Oh, how well I remember it!
0	What would you do if she struck you across the face with her glove?
0	"I don't know what you mean, Basil," he exclaimed, turning round.
0	Didn't you get my letter?
0	And philanthropy seems to me to have become simply the refuge of people who wish to annoy their fellow-creatures.
0	Well, really, Lady Chiltern, I think I should have back my own letter.
0	The man knew more than enough English for that.
0	But we will not be the first to speak.
0	You value beauty far too much."
0	I will not let it come across our three lives and mar them."
0	To be in love is to surpass one's self.
0	‘That is capital,’ said the Infanta, after a pause; ‘but now you must dance for me.’ ‘Yes,’ cried all the children, ‘you must get up and dance, for you are as clever as the Barbary apes, and much more ridiculous.’  But the little Dwarf made no answer.
0	The next time he calls, you will be perfectly cold and indifferent.
0	I think men are the only authorities on dress.
0	There is only one thing worse than Injustice, and that is Justice without her sword in her hand.
0	You may also ring the bell.
0	Your little feet will be like white doves.
0	H Beerbohm Tree_                            _April_ 19_th_, 1893 FARQUHAR (_Butler_)                 _Mr.
0	“‘Good-bye, little Hans,’ said the Miller, as he went up the hill with the plank on his shoulder, and the big basket in his hand.
0	They are just like white butterflies.
0	[Rushing over to Miss Prism.]
0	He could not help liking the tall, graceful young man who was standing by him.
0	"My dear Gladys, I would not alter either name for the world.
0	It makes us pay too high a price for its wares, and we purchase the meanest of its secrets at a cost that is monstrous and infinite.
0	The poor chap was killed in a duel at Spa a few months after the marriage.
0	He felt a hand laid on his arm and looked round with a start.
0	And perhaps it is a good thing for most of us that it is not.
0	[_Takes his hat_, _cane_, _and cape_, _and presents new buttonhole on salver_.]
0	Byron was a symbolic figure, but his relations were to the passion of his age and its weariness of passion.
0	It is in the brain, and the brain only, that the great sins of the world take place also.
0	So great had been his love for her that he had not suffered even the grave to hide her from him.
0	I hope I am not that.
0	He regards her as his right hand in the parish.
0	Since then everything that I have touched has turned out a success.
0	The Nile has not overflowed its banks, and the priests have cursed Isis and Osiris.
0	"Why, what did you expect, Dorian?
0	[Enter Jack followed by Algernon.
0	Whenever I am walking in the park here, I always feel that I am no more to her than the cattle that browse on the slope, or the burdock that blooms in the ditch.
0	But who drove him to it?
0	In all things connected with money I have had a luck so extraordinary that sometimes it has made me almost afraid.
0	Therefore, let our lord take this crown and this sceptre, and be in his justice and mercy our King over us.’ But he said to them, ‘I am not worthy, for I have denied the mother who bare me, nor may I rest till I have found her, and known her forgiveness.
0	‘At the end of the garden stood a little pavilion.
0	I hear in the palace the beating of the wings of the angel of death.
0	I am known for the gentleness of my disposition, and the extraordinary sweetness of my nature, but I warn you, Miss Cardew, you may go too far.
0	We came to inquire for your dear mother, Gerald.
0	"Don't mind him, my dear," whispered Lady Agatha.
0	Not one of these men ever did a single day’s work for hire.
0	With his beautiful face, and his beautiful soul, he was a thing to wonder at.
0	It is right that I should see her.
0	I offer you my life— LORD DARLINGTON.
0	Would there ever be some one who would fill him with a strange idolatry?
0	For a moment he paused there, the wind blowing his long grey locks about his head, and twisting into grotesque and fantastic folds the nameless horror of the dead man's shroud.
0	But it’s so difficult to meet one.
0	Do not stay here, Princess, I beseech you.
0	LADY WINDERMERE _clutches at her fan_, _then lets it drop on the door_.
0	England will never be civilised till she has added Utopia to her dominions.
0	On reaching the room occupied by the twins, which I should mention was called the Blue Bed Chamber, on account of the colour of its hangings, he found the door just ajar.
0	Is it fair that the folly, the sin of one’s youth, if men choose to call it a sin, should wreck a life like mine, should place me in the pillory, should shatter all that I have worked for, all that I have built up.
0	Those whom the poet makes live have their myriad emotions of joy and terror, of courage and despair, of pleasure and of suffering.
0	It does not try to force people to be good.
0	Every one quoted it, it was full of so many words that they could not understand.
0	What has become of the Frenchman, by the bye?"
0	“You must not lie here,” shouted the Watchman, and they wandered out into the rain.
0	In my time, of course, we were taught not to understand anything.
0	"I am told, on excellent authority, that her father keeps an American dry-goods store," said Sir Thomas Burdon, looking supercilious.
0	the young man who has a post in a bank.
0	Modern life would be very tedious if it were either, and modern literature a complete impossibility!
0	Youth is the time for success.
0	Here they found tea laid out for them, and, after taking off their wraps, they sat down and began to look round, while Mrs. Umney waited on them.
0	I wonder what the rest of your life will be.
0	“‘Do you think it would be unfriendly of me if I said I was busy?’ he inquired in a shy and timid voice.
0	She passed again into the sphere of art.
0	His sense of dramatic situation was unrivalled, and, if he could not answer his own problems, he could at least put problems forth, and what more should an artist do?
0	Wonderful woman, Lady Markby, isn’t she?
0	When your youth goes, your beauty will go with it, and then you will suddenly discover that there are no triumphs left for you, or have to content yourself with those mean triumphs that the memory of your past will make more bitter than defeats.
0	They are interpretative and symbolic.
0	He is an admirable servant.
0	Cannot repentance wipe out an act of folly?
0	The duchess turned and looked at Dorian Gray with a curious expression in her eyes.
0	MRS. ARBUTHNOT _goes towards door_ L.C.
0	He shot at me with an arrow, but I held up my hands and it stopped in mid-air.
0	[Picture: The Remarkable Rocket] THE King’s son was going to be married, so there were general rejoicings.
0	Don't squander the gold of your days, listening to the tedious, trying to improve the hopeless failure, or giving away your life to the ignorant, the common, and the vulgar.
0	Twenty-eight years ago, Prism, you left Lord Bracknell's house, Number 104, Upper Grosvenor Street, in charge of a perambulator that contained a baby of the male sex.
0	He seems to have anticipated some of those accidents of modern culture that are regarded by many as true essentials.
0	I can’t tell you how at present.
0	They were elements of his nature to which he gave visible form, impulses that stirred so strongly within him that he had, as it were perforce, to suffer them to realise their energy, not on the lower plane of actual life, where they would have been trammelled and constrained and so made imperfect, but on that imaginative plane of art where Love can indeed find in Death its rich fulfilment, where one can stab the eavesdropper behind the arras, and wrestle in a new-made grave, and make a guilty king drink his own hurt, and see one’s father’s spirit, beneath the glimpses of the moon, stalking in complete steel from misty wall to wall.
0	My gods dwell in temples made with hands; and within the circle of actual experience is my creed made perfect and complete: too complete, it may be, for like many or all of those who have placed their heaven in this earth, I have found in it not merely the beauty of heaven, but the horror of hell also.
0	Why are you Ernest in town and Jack in the country?
0	Was he born in what the Radical papers call the purple of commerce, or did he rise from the ranks of the aristocracy?
0	Don’t go to meet it.
0	And they are always thinking about themselves, when I want them to be thinking about me.
0	As he leapt upon the saddle he turned round, and looked at the young Fisherman sadly.
0	I must call you Prince Charming.'"
0	And when Socialism has solved the problem of poverty, and Science solved the problem of disease, the area of the sentimentalists will be lessened, and the sympathy of man will be large, healthy, and spontaneous.
0	We are trying at present to stave off the coming crisis, the coming revolution as my friends the Fabianists call it, by means of doles and alms.
0	It’s no use talking to Tuppy.
0	He keeps playing with action as an artist plays with a theory.
0	I didn’t go to Lord Goring’s, after all.
0	With us, prison makes a man a pariah.
0	Well, I won't argue about the matter.
0	I was a virgin, and thou didst take my virginity from me.
0	I have come up to town expressly to propose to her.
0	But this is the way in which everyone should live.
0	The hair would lose its brightness, the mouth would gape or droop, would be foolish or gross, as the mouths of old men are.
0	I rode on a red-haired camel by the side of the chief, and a runner ran before us carrying a spear.
0	The first is the appearance of a new medium for art, and the second is the appearance of a new personality for art also.
0	The slimy pavement looked like a wet mackintosh.
0	Charity creates a multitude of sins.
0	"What do you mean, Jim?"
0	This it reflecteth not, so that he who looketh into it may be wise.
0	Indeed, so forlorn, and so much out of repair did he look, that little Virginia, whose first idea had been to run away and lock herself in her room, was filled with pity, and determined to try and comfort him.
0	God is terrible; He breaketh the strong and the weak as a man brays corn in a mortar.
0	I must get far more out of myself than ever I got, and ask far less of the world than ever I asked.
0	You have saved my life," said Dorian.
0	you should never forget it.
0	At least, I hope I shan’t.
0	“Yes, that is just what I want to know,” said the Duck; and she swam away to the end of the pond, and stood upon her head, in order to give her children a good example.
0	I had realised this for myself at the very dawn of my manhood, and had forced my age to realise it afterwards.
0	I have some letters to write, dear.
0	[_Taking his hand away quietly_.]
0	I, too, foretold it, and it has happened.
0	The presence of a third person in the room seemed to give him extraordinary courage.
0	And he who desires to understand Shakespeare truly must understand the relations in which Shakespeare stood to the Renaissance and the Reformation, to the age of Elizabeth and the age of James; he must be familiar with the history of the struggle for supremacy between the old classical forms and the new spirit of romance, between the school of Sidney, and Daniel, and Johnson, and the school of Marlowe and Marlowe’s greater son; he must know the materials that were at Shakespeare’s disposal, and the method in which he used them, and the conditions of theatric presentation in the sixteenth and seventeenth century, their limitations and their opportunities for freedom, and the literary criticism of Shakespeare’s day, its aims and modes and canons; he must study the English language in its progress, and blank or rhymed verse in its various developments; he must study the Greek drama, and the connection between the art of the creator of the Agamemnon and the art of the creator of Macbeth; in a word, he must be able to bind Elizabethan London to the Athens of Pericles, and to learn Shakespeare’s true position in the history of European drama and the drama of the world.
0	Yet ever did thy love abide with me, and ever was it strong, nor did aught prevail against it, though I have looked upon evil and looked upon good.
0	I believe I am to have enough to live on for about eighteen months at any rate, so that if I may not write beautiful books, I may at least read beautiful books; and what joy can be greater?
0	[LORD GORING, _dressed in the height of fashion_, _is lounging in an armchair_.
0	Mrs. Cheveley made an attempt to ruin your husband.
0	The strange noise still continued, and with it he heard distinctly the sound of footsteps.
0	But we won’t talk about them.
0	I was thinking chiefly of flowers.
0	Yes, it was Dorian himself.
0	Yet, after some time, he wearied of them, and would sit in his box at the opera, either alone or with Lord Henry, listening in rapt pleasure to "Tannhauser" and seeing in the prelude to that great work of art a presentation of the tragedy of his own soul.
0	She wants you to make her apologies to them.
0	The wrong that has been done you must be repaired.
0	Even now it is difficult to produce such a play as the _Comedy of Errors_; and to the picturesque accident of Miss Ellen Terry’s brother resembling herself we owe the opportunity of seeing _Twelfth Night_ adequately performed.
0	The sound of the shutting of the hall door fell on his ear.
0	It's delightful to watch them.
0	For the privilege of being your wife I was ready to surrender a great prize, the climax of my diplomatic career.
0	The mutilation of the savage has its tragic survival in the self-denial that mars our lives.
0	As bad as Basil says?"
0	Of course the æsthetic value of Shakespeare’s plays does not, in the slightest degree, depend on their facts, but on their Truth, and Truth is independent of facts always, inventing or selecting them at pleasure.
0	But if one is in love?
0	He was dimly conscious that entirely fresh influences were at work within him.
0	We have talked long enough.
0	At present, people see fogs, not because there are fogs, but because poets and painters have taught them the mysterious loveliness of such effects.
0	"I am so sorry for you, Alan," he murmured, "but you leave me no alternative.
0	Yet I must learn these lessons here, if I am to learn them anywhere, and must be filled with joy if my feet are on the right road and my face set towards 'the gate which is called beautiful,' though I may fall many times in the mire and often in the mist go astray.
0	What should I have done in honest households?
0	I suppose your mother is very religious, and that sort of thing.
0	You have asked me about the influence of Criticism.
0	She says she never sees you now.
0	It came so suddenly across me, my love for you.
0	And his Soul said to him, ‘Smite that child.’  So he smote the child till it wept, and when he had done this they went hurriedly out of the city.
0	If you dance for me you may ask of me what you will, and I will give it you, even unto the half of my kingdom.
0	I don't suppose I shall ever see this horrid London again.
0	"Somewhere about here, sir, ain't it?"
0	And at that moment the Infanta herself came in with her companions through the open window, and when they saw the ugly little dwarf lying on the ground and beating the floor with his clenched hands, in the most fantastic and exaggerated manner, they went off into shouts of happy laughter, and stood all round him and watched him.
0	I quite sympathize with the rage of the English democracy against what they call the vices of the upper orders.
0	The image stained upon the canvas possesses no spiritual element of growth or change.
0	After he had waited there some time, he sold the sack of flour for a very good price, and then he returned home at once, for he was afraid that if he stopped too late he might meet some robbers on the way.
0	suddenly exclaimed one of the twins, who had been looking out of the window to try and discover in what wing of the house the room was situated.
0	Civilization is not by any means an easy thing to attain to.
0	I hope to let you know very soon, Lord Caversham!
0	And now let us go out on the terrace, where ‘droops the milk-white peacock like a ghost,’ while the evening star ‘washes the dusk with silver.’  At twilight nature becomes a wonderfully suggestive effect, and is not without loveliness, though perhaps its chief use is to illustrate quotations from the poets.
0	I cannot put my sufferings into any form they took, I need hardly say.
0	It is quite true that his life had been very evil, but, upon the other hand, he was most conscientious in all things connected with the supernatural.
0	Dumby, you are ridiculous, and Cecil, you let your tongue run away with you.
0	And it is all his, his only, Prince Charming, my wonderful lover, my god of graces.
0	Archæological accuracy is merely a condition of illusionist stage effect; it is not its quality.
0	“You will never be in the best society unless you can stand on your heads,” she kept saying to them; and every now and then she showed them how it was done.
0	When Marsyas was 'torn from the scabbard of his limbs'--_della vagina della membre sue_, to use one of Dante's most terrible Tacitean phrases--he had no more song, the Greek said.
0	The most terrible thing about it is not that it breaks one's heart--hearts are made to be broken--but that it turns one's heart to stone.
0	That's all that can be said about land.
0	Besides, even if he did confess, who would believe him?
0	If I know you at all, I know that you can’t live with a man who treats you like this!
0	Wherefore I must go hence, and wander through the world till I find her, and she give me her forgiveness.’ So he ran away into the forest and called out to his mother to come to him, but there was no answer.
0	I always want to forget what I have been doing.
0	Through the crowd of ungainly, shabbily dressed actors, Sibyl Vane moved like a creature from a finer world.
0	Basil would have helped him to resist Lord Henry's influence, and the still more poisonous influences that came from his own temperament.
0	After a few minutes he became absorbed.
0	They had been formally betrothed on that occasion by the Papal Nuncio in the presence of the French King and all the Court, and he had returned to the Escurial bearing with him a little ringlet of yellow hair, and the memory of two childish lips bending down to kiss his hand as he stepped into his carriage.
0	So that man thought that the important thing was to have, and did not know that the important thing is to be.
0	It sounds as if he was having an argument.
0	His valet had gone to bed.... Paris!
0	This cigarette case is a present from some one of the name of Cecily, and you said you didn't know any one of that name.
0	He put on his fur coat and hat and went out into the hall.
0	Failure to Robert would be the very mire of shame.
0	But do you seriously propose that every man should become his own Boswell?
0	That may be so, but at least it is not so superficial as thought is.
0	He showed me a letter that his wife had written to him when she was dying alone in her villa at Mentone.
0	how shabby the Happy Prince looks!” he said.
0	In a few moments he was out of the theatre.
0	The world is wide, and has many marvellous people in it.
0	There were grey catkins on the hazels, and the foxgloves drooped with the weight of their dappled bee-haunted cells.
0	anything, which you don’t, you would know that I adore you.
0	I wouldn’t marry a man with a future before him for anything under the sun.
0	But really, Gerald, what do you mean by not being suitable?
0	They do not succeed in producing even that impression of reality at which they aim, and which is their only reason for existing.
0	_Then returns_, _looking rather put out_, SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.
0	"Like all good reputations, Gladys," interrupted Lord Henry.
0	Is it morbid to have a desire for food?
0	You will like him so much.
0	It is simply one example out of many; and if something cannot be done to check, or at least to modify, our monstrous worship of facts, Art will become sterile, and beauty will pass away from the land.
0	It is not of me that he speaks.
0	I've quite a treat for you to-night, Algernon.
0	Upstairs, in his own room, Dorian Gray was lying on a sofa, with terror in every tingling fibre of his body.
0	They get all their dresses in Paris.
0	And it is not for you to make terms.
0	"Especially when one has been wounded by it," answered Lord Henry.
0	But I remember her very well at Vienna thirty years ago, and how _decolletee_ she was then."
0	And now I must tell you how sorry I am for you, dear Margaret.
0	I have sorrows, Dorian, of my own, that even you know nothing of.
0	You should be thinking about others.
0	"I am sixteen," he answered, "and I know what I am about.
0	But you are not to say foolish, insincere things to people.
0	And with fear in his eyes, Lord Henry rushed through the flapping palms to find Dorian Gray lying face downwards on the tiled floor in a deathlike swoon.
0	Well-bred people always stay exactly in the same place, as we do.
0	There was a bitter taste on thy lips.
0	They are extremely fortunate in that respect.
0	"Thank you, sir," said the man, leaving the room.
0	I was very fond of her.
0	Both of his attempts were complete failures, and in 1844, being thoroughly dissatisfied with Tasmanian society, he presented a memorial to the governor of the settlement, Sir John Eardley Wilmot, praying for a ticket-of-leave.
0	Thought and language are to the artist instruments of an art.
0	Women should think in moderation, as they should do all things in moderation.
0	All terms that one applies to a work of art, provided that one applies them rationally, have reference to either its style or its subject, or to both together.
0	The meagre daylight peered in through the grated windows, and showed him the gaunt figures of the weavers bending over their cases.
0	And you asked me to be your wife.
0	He has been called a thinker, and was certainly a man who was always thinking, and always thinking aloud; but it was not thought that fascinated him, but rather the processes by which thought moves.
0	The world has become sad because a puppet was once melancholy.
0	"Little more than a boy!"
0	His romantic, olive-coloured face and worn expression interested him.
0	No woman should have a memory.
0	And what cure hast thou for these things?
0	That is why you pretended to love me.
0	His own voice sounded shrill and curious in his ears.
0	And sometimes it is a clever game, Sir Robert.
0	order!” cried out a Cracker.
0	But not for my own sake will I lie to God, and in God’s presence.
0	How little you know him!
0	[1] A more recent performance of "Salomé" (1906), by the Literary Theatre Club, has again produced an ebullition of rancour and deliberate misrepresentation on the part of the dramatic critics, the majority of whom are anxious to parade their ignorance of the continental stage.
0	There were moments when he looked on evil simply as a mode through which he could realize his conception of the beautiful.
0	No, don't mind the cigarettes--I have some.
0	How wonderfully clever you are!
0	You would feel that he was lying to you every moment of the day.
0	He was a very selfish Giant.
0	I wonder who it was defined man as a rational animal.
0	A little too modern, perhaps.
0	I think Jack, for instance, a charming name.
0	"Might one look at the work of art, sir?"
0	His face was flushed and his cheeks burning.
0	I will tell you when you have kissed the Puritan.
0	Music had stirred him like that.
0	But in our own century it was strange....
0	This remarkable man, so powerful with ‘pen, pencil and poison,’ as a great poet of our own day has finely said of him, was born at Chiswick, in 1794.
0	He shall not cross the threshold of my house.
0	Do go and change them.
0	A thoughtful young friend of ours once told us that it reminded him of the sort of conversation that goes on at a meat tea in the house of a serious Nonconformist family, and we can quite believe it.
0	Do you really mean that?
0	[_Exit the slave._] We dare not, Princess.
0	[_The Executioner goes down into the cistern._] Ah!
0	Surely you see now that I am right?
0	Because you haven’t mentioned the subject.
0	“She has no conversation,” he said, “and I am afraid that she is a coquette, for she is always flirting with the wind.”  And certainly, whenever the wind blew, the Reed made the most graceful curtseys.
0	No; I want Lord Augustus.
0	I seem to have heard that observation before, Ernest.
0	People cry out against the sinner, yet it is not the sinful, but the stupid, who are our shame.
0	There were times when it appeared to Dorian Gray that the whole of history was merely the record of his own life, not as he had lived it in act and circumstance, but as his imagination had created it for him, as it had been in his brain and in his passions.
0	Then he remembered the lamp.
0	Christ, had he been asked, would have said--I feel quite certain about it--that the moment the prodigal son fell on his knees and wept, he made his having wasted his substance with harlots, his swine- herding and hungering for the husks they ate, beautiful and holy moments in his life.
0	All day long they played, and in the evening they came to the Giant to bid him good-bye.
0	I am so sorry, dear Cecily, if it is any disappointment to you, but I am afraid I have the prior claim.
0	But you must come and sit to me yourself again.
0	They cut the air like a dagger.
0	The sin of my youth, that I had thought was buried, rose up in front of me, hideous, horrible, with its hands at my throat.
0	I wish you would fall in love.
0	"You would sacrifice anybody, Harry, for the sake of an epigram."
0	He turned glazed eyes upon him.
0	He was very remarkable, in many ways.
0	You are an extraordinary fellow.
0	It was no matter how it all ended, or was destined to end.
0	It was the eldest son who succeeded, of course, Lady Hunstanton?
0	Eating as usual, I see, Algy!
0	A false Vautrin might be delightful.
0	Something began to trickle on the floor.
0	Women who hate one are much more interesting.
0	And yet he should be always ready to have a perfectly terrible scene, whenever we want one, and to become miserable, absolutely miserable, at a moment’s notice, and to overwhelm us with just reproaches in less than twenty minutes, and to be positively violent at the end of half an hour, and to leave us for ever at a quarter to eight, when we have to go and dress for dinner.
0	One hears it now from every pulpit.
0	They seem, as a class, to have absolutely no sense of moral responsibility.
0	You find me consoled, and you are furious.
0	I was like that once.
0	What can you have to say to him?
0	He fell heavily into the surf, and his companions galloped away.
0	Not one blossom of his loveliness would ever fade.
0	You were a little annoyed; but then you did not realize all that it meant to me.
0	"Romantic art begins with its climax."
0	this is the second time that you have succoured me.’ ‘Nay, but thou hadst pity on me first,’ said the Hare, and it ran away swiftly.
0	“He worked there all day long, till sunset, and at sunset the Miller came to see how he was getting on.
0	I'm afraid I've no time, this afternoon.
0	Mr. Moncrieff, kindly answer me the following question.
0	Not even to the Ideal Man?
0	‘Faster,’ cried the Witch, and she threw her arms about his neck, and her breath was hot upon his face.
0	In the land of Purgation the air is freer, and the holy mountain rises into the pure light of day.
0	But of course, you will clearly understand that all communication between yourself and my daughter must cease immediately from this moment.
0	In fact, you are sure to be out of town.
0	No, I am talking very seriously.
0	I think it most courageous of you.
0	A carefully thought-out buttonhole is much more effective.
0	I have just got a beauty of a frame, sir.
0	Are you going, Mrs. Allonby?
0	We never must be again.
0	That is the only difference between them.
0	But we are not likely to suffer from it unless these fellows keep chattering about this thing at dinner.
0	But no, I hear it again.
0	_His are all the delicate fopperies of Fashion_.
0	Do you really require me to tell you?
0	To ask whether Individualism is practical is like asking whether Evolution is practical.
0	Above and more remote than the Ephidryad,     another female, rending her locks, appears among the vine-festooned     pillars of an unshorn grove.
0	In black fantastic shapes, dumb shadows crawl into the corners of the room and crouch there.
0	I am so happy to-night, mother; I have never been so happy.
0	In your own interests, Sir Robert, to say nothing of mine, you must not do that.
0	Certainly no one looking at Dorian Gray that night could have believed that he had passed through a tragedy as horrible as any tragedy of our age.
0	When they reached the top landing, Dorian set the lamp down on the floor, and taking out the key, turned it in the lock.
0	And now, Gertrude, if you will allow me, I shall leave Mrs. Cheveley in your charge and call back for her in a quarter of an hour.
0	She told me once that they were all rather curious to learn who I was, and that she invariably told them my name was Prince Charming.
0	It has been a marvellous experience.
0	They use them as bludgeons for preventing the free expression of Beauty in new forms.
0	I beg your pardon, my dear fellow, I didn’t quite mean that.
0	Every nation seems suddenly to have become interested in the dress of its neighbours.
0	But it is clear that he was one of the first to recognise what is, indeed, the very keynote of æsthetic eclecticism, I mean the true harmony of all really beautiful things irrespective of age or place, of school or manner.
0	You'll never break off our engagement again, Cecily?
0	In that valley whose grass and flowers are fairer than cleft emerald and Indian wood, and brighter than scarlet and silver, they are singing who in the world were kings; but the lips of Rudolph of Hapsburg do not move to the music of the others, and Philip of France beats his breast and Henry of England sits alone.
0	Perhaps you forgot all about it."
0	We women live by our emotions and for them.
0	Sweet is the scent of the hawthorn, and sweet are the bluebells that hide in the valley, and the heather that blows on the hill.
0	He would make that wonderful spirit his own.
0	You can have the evening to yourself.
0	If the picture could change, and I could be always what I am now!
0	I am afraid that he has one of those terribly weak natures that are not susceptible to influence.
0	Did I give you this?
0	Your letter was on pink paper.
0	I will certainly encourage them.
0	But he was young—only twenty-five years of age—and he soon passed out of the ‘dead black waters,’ as he called them, into the larger air of humanistic culture.
0	[MRS. ARBUTHNOT _appears on terrace behind_.]
0	I will bite it with my teeth as one bites a ripe fruit.
0	I remember your saying once that there is a fatality about good resolutions--that they are always made too late.
0	And this use of archæology in shows, so far from being a bit of priggish pedantry, is in every way legitimate and beautiful.
0	If I were in mourning you would stay with me, I suppose.
0	In fact, we owe it everything, except the sonnet, to which, however, some curious parallels of thought-movement may be traced in the Anthology, American journalism, to which no parallel can be found anywhere, and the ballad in sham Scotch dialect, which one of our most industrious writers has recently proposed should be made the basis for a final and unanimous effort on the part of our second-rate poets to make themselves really romantic.
0	"My dear boy, they have only been talking about it for six weeks, and the British public are really not equal to the mental strain of having more than one topic every three months.
0	I am sure Mr. Trafford will be able to give you one.
0	He must be sure, also, to write to her by every mail, and to say his prayers each night before he went to sleep.
0	You are certainly not staying with me for a whole week as a guest or anything else.
0	He is a suggestion, as I have said, of a new manner.
0	Yes; that is quite, quite true.
0	Perhaps some night he might find him creeping upstairs and trying to force the door of the room.
0	When did you see it last?
0	There are other cases I might quote, but this one is quite sufficient for my purpose; and it is evident from it at any rate that, in mounting a play in the accurate costume of the time, according to the best authorities, we are carrying out Shakespeare’s own wishes and method.
0	Indeed there are moments, rare, it is true, but still to be observed from time to time, when Nature becomes absolutely modern.
0	I know you and Harry are inseparable.
0	They went back to the palace, the eunuchs following slowly behind and plucking the sweet mulberries from the trees as they passed.
0	"You must remember that it is your own choice.
0	Staveley curled his lip and said that you might have the most artistic tastes, but that you were a man whom no pure-minded girl should be allowed to know, and whom no chaste woman should sit in the same room with.
0	"Nothing is ever quite true," said Lord Henry.
0	said Lady Agatha, "how you men argue!
0	At a capital story that I have just come across in this volume of Reminiscences that I have found on your table.
0	If a man approaches a work of art with any desire to exercise authority over it and the artist, he approaches it in such a spirit that he cannot receive any artistic impression from it at all.
0	This portrait would be to him the most magical of mirrors.
0	[Advancing to table and helping himself.]
0	Mr. Gray, come over and look at yourself."
0	"Basil was very popular, and always wore a Waterbury watch.
0	[_Goes up C._]  I say, Darlington, let us have some cards.
0	no doubt you both have many pleasant reminiscences of your schooldays to talk over together.
0	That is a hard saying, Gertrude!
0	You need not wait, Mabel.
0	I trust he is one of the aristocracy.
0	Nothing is more evident than that Nature hates Mind.
0	[_Exeunt_ LADY JEDBURGH _and_ MRS. ERLYNNE.
0	I want to have a career.
0	Here is one of them.
0	At least nothing should be."
0	He took children as the type of what people should try to become.
0	I am going to tell my husband everything.
0	He remembered with what callousness he had watched her.
0	What a comfort it is to have got rid of the men for a little!
0	He is merely the infinitesimal atom of a force that, so far from regarding him, crushes him: indeed, prefers him crushed, as in that case he is far more obedient.
0	The bezoar, that was found in the heart of the Arabian deer, was a charm that could cure the plague.
0	When it appears in volume form I hope you will order a copy.
0	I have seen him, and oh!
0	He understood the leprosy of the leper, the darkness of the blind, the fierce misery of those who live for pleasure, the strange poverty of the rich.
0	Mrs. Vane glanced at her, and with one of those false theatrical gestures that so often become a mode of second nature to a stage-player, clasped her in her arms.
0	Downstairs ran the Giant in great joy, and out into the garden.
0	Ah, yes, an iron Exhibition, is it not, at that place that has the curious name?
0	Yet he thought it best to be on his guard.
0	At last he lost his way, and wandered off on the moor, which was a very dangerous place, as it was full of deep holes, and there poor little Hans was drowned.
0	In the slanting beams that streamed through the open doorway the dust danced and was golden.
0	No, I have been listening to the conversation.
0	Well, really, Gwendolen, I must say that I think there are lots of other much nicer names.
0	But still it is very bad, and wrong, and demoralising.
0	"I wish he had been."
0	How do I know that that was my letter after all?
0	Oh, Harry, I can't bear it!
0	Of the ‘Athenian dress’ by which Lysander is distinguished from Oberon I have already spoken; but one of the most marked instances is in the case of the dress of Coriolanus, for which Shakespeare goes directly to Plutarch.
0	Indeed, anybody who cares to examine the age of Shakespeare will see that archæology was one of its special characteristics.
0	As for begging, it is safer to beg than to take, but it is finer to take than to beg.
0	How pleasant it was in the garden!
0	The wild boar roots up the corn in the valley, and the foxes gnaw the vines upon the hill.
0	Well, I will make her stand by her husband.
0	He had hardly ever permitted her to be out of his sight; for her, he had forgotten, or seemed to have forgotten, all grave affairs of State; and, with that terrible blindness that passion brings upon its servants, he had failed to notice that the elaborate ceremonies by which he sought to please her did but aggravate the strange malady from which she suffered.
0	I should like to know some one who had committed a real murder."
0	Define us as a sex.
0	Margaret, what you said before dinner was, of course, impossible?
0	Indeed, in some measure it was a disappointment to her.
0	For days after I met you, something seemed to throb in my veins.
0	_The husband and wife are left alone_.
0	It is through Art, and through Art only, that we can realise our perfection; through Art, and through Art only, that we can shield ourselves from the sordid perils of actual existence.
0	He would ask him and try.
0	Know I don’t look it.
0	Lord Henry passed up the low arcade into Burlington Street and turned his steps in the direction of Berkeley Square.
0	I am so glad, darling.
0	They will all have to go into mourning.
0	He loved the red gold of the sunstone, and the moonstone's pearly whiteness, and the broken rainbow of the milky opal.
0	I will tell you, Arthur, but only love me, love me as you used to love me.
0	Yes, it was his duty to do so.
0	The precept as well as the practice of the Primitive Church was distinctly against matrimony.
0	to save you from the abyss into which you are falling, there is nothing in the world I would not dare, nothing in the whole world.
0	You are quite right, my dear, quite right .
0	Everything that you have not got, sir, and never will have.
0	I tell you there is no one in that room.
0	A misanthrope I can understand--a womanthrope, never!
0	He is too much afraid of the prophet.
0	Yes: it has been said by one whose gracious memory we all revere, and the music of whose pipe once lured Proserpina from her Sicilian fields, and made those white feet stir, and not in vain, the Cumnor cowslips, that the proper aim of Criticism is to see the object as in itself it really is.
0	I thought you had come up for pleasure?
0	"No trouble at all, Mr. Gray.
0	Nowadays it is only the unreadable that occurs.
0	The intellect of the race is wasted in the sordid and stupid quarrels of second-rate politicians or third-rate theologians.
0	But he suddenly started up, and closing his eyes, placed his fingers upon the lids, as though he sought to imprison within his brain some curious dream from which he feared he might awake.
0	"It would not interest you, Mr. Hubbard," he said, keeping his eye on the man.
0	Yet it seems as if nothing could stop him.
0	You will go and write your letter to the Prime Minister now, won’t you?
0	You are like one of the heroes of those silly melodramas Mother used to be so fond of acting in.
0	Dorian Gray went over and poured out the tea.
0	I hope you have brought Sir John with you?
0	I will not do what you ask me.
0	A mist makes things wonderful."
0	More marriages are ruined nowadays by the common sense of the husband than by anything else.
0	Do with it as thou wilt.’ And she took from her girdle a little knife that had a handle of green viper’s skin, and gave it to him.
0	Are you sure of this, Gertrude?
0	He was always late on principle, his principle being that punctuality is the thief of time.
0	To my own knowledge she has been thirty-five ever since she arrived at the age of forty, which was many years ago now.
0	They must be hidden away somewhere.
0	And when he reached the great portal of the cathedral, the soldiers thrust their halberts out and said, ‘What dost thou seek here?
0	However, I don’t want to be too hard on Nature.
0	Well, Tommy has proposed to me again.
0	Sibyl Vane seemed to him to be absurdly melodramatic.
0	Child, you and she belong to different worlds.
0	I found out then that what he had told me was perfectly true.
0	"His name is Prince Paradox," said Dorian.
0	He will realise himself in many forms, and by a thousand different ways, and will ever be curious of new sensations and fresh points of view.
0	I know you quite well by your photographs.
0	These personages have become like the puppets of a play.
0	I have no character at all, and Robert is the only genius I could ever bear.
0	And his Soul that was within him called out to him and said, ‘Lo!
0	he answered, gazing at her in amazement.
0	She came towards him, and kneeling down at his side, looked up into his old withered face.
0	She can see his bright hair, and hears, or fancies that she hears, that clear cold voice.
0	I sometimes think she must have married beneath her.
0	What of the second Lord Beckenham, the companion of the Prince Regent in his wildest days, and one of the witnesses at the secret marriage with Mrs. Fitzherbert?
0	To live is the rarest thing in the world.
0	‘And when the Emperor had taken away his hands from before his face he said to me: “This is my house of treasure, and half that is in it is thine, even as I promised to thee.
0	I never heard of her, Duchess.
0	Verily, no man knoweth if Elias the prophet did indeed see God.
0	Oh, I am sick of hearing that phrase.
0	And after that they had gone a league from the city the young Fisherman grew wroth, and said to his Soul, ‘Why didst thou tell me to smite the child, for it was an evil thing to do?’ But his Soul answered him, ‘Be at peace, be at peace.’ And on the evening of the third day they came to a city, and the young Fisherman said to his Soul, ‘Is this the city in which she dances of whom thou didst speak to me?’ And his Soul answered him, ‘It may be that it is in this city, therefore let us enter in.’ So they entered in and passed through the streets, but nowhere could the young Fisherman find the river or the inn that stood by its side.
0	He could not forgive him that.
0	[_With infinite contempt in her voice and look_.]
0	You mean that you amused yourself immensely, don’t you?
0	Here, in gold-embroidered red doublet, jewelled surcoat, and gilt-edged ruff and wristbands, stood Sir Anthony Sherard, with his silver-and-black armour piled at his feet.
0	The pirates lay waste the sea-coast and burn the ships of the fishermen, and take their nets from them.
0	One felt that he had kept himself unspotted from the world.
0	Now at the gate of the city there was seated one who was a leper.
0	He was perfectly safe there.
0	And after all, it may be merely the fancy of a drowning person.
0	Why had they not left him in the forest, where there was no mirror to tell him how loathsome he was?
0	It is the phrase they always use, and the expression has the perfect wisdom of love in it.
0	Oh, is he going to take you for a nice drive?
0	I think that view might be questioned.
0	And to-night I am to dine with you, and then go on to the opera, and sup somewhere, I suppose, afterwards.
0	It was ‘Jekyll.’  At least it should have been.
0	Just as those who do not love Plato more than Truth cannot pass beyond the threshold of the Academe, so those who do not love Beauty more than Truth never know the inmost shrine of Art.
0	Also there are reasons of State.
0	It has probably always been true about actual life.
0	By the way, why Arbuthnot, Rachel?
0	As they entered the studio, Dorian Gray put his hand upon Lord Henry's arm.
0	She turns to the soldiers._] Hither, ye soldiers.
0	Mr. Otis at once insisted on her having something to eat, and ordered up supper for the whole party.
0	By invariably discussing the unnecessary it makes us understand what things are requisite for culture, and what are not.
0	I beg your pardon, Algy, I suppose I shouldn't talk about your own aunt in that way before you.
0	But those who walk in epos, drama, or romance, see through the labouring months the young moons wax and wane, and watch the night from evening unto morning star, and from sunrise unto sunsetting can note the shifting day with all its gold and shadow.
0	Gertrude, is it love you feel for me, or is it pity merely?
0	To sweep it with mental, moral, or physical dignity seems to me to be impossible.
0	Femininity is the quality I admire most in women.
0	I am degraded in my own eyes; and I lack courage—I am a coward!
0	But I don't want to interrupt you.
0	_He then realises that it is impossible_.]
0	[LADY CHILTERN _goes out with him_.]
0	When I had lost my passion for power, or could not use it.
0	Their result is absolutely _nil_.
0	A decent-looking man, sir, but rough-like.
0	The advantage of the emotions is that they lead us astray, and the advantage of science is that it is not emotional."
0	The dead staff blossomed, and bare lilies that were whiter than pearls.
0	You see nowadays it is not fashionable to flirt till one is forty, or to be romantic till one is forty-five, so we poor women who are under thirty, or say we are, have nothing open to us but politics or philanthropy.
0	They are worn very high, just at present.
0	How weak bad men are!
0	Out of the ceaseless winds that drive them, the carnal look at us, and we watch the heretic rending his flesh, and the glutton lashed by the rain.
0	Indeed, there is not the slightest necessity that the public should know the authorities for the mounting of any piece.
0	Love is a sacrament that should be taken kneeling, and _Domine, non sum dignus_ should be on the lips and in the hearts of those who receive it.
0	You mustn't say these dreadful things.
0	Why, I have met hundreds of good women.
0	Well, Jokanaan, I still live, but thou, thou art dead, and thy head belongs to me.
0	As he did so, a knock came to the door.
0	It is true that he has made certain concessions in the case of the employment of curious or strange expressions.
0	It was your ambition that led you astray.
0	There are principles at stake that one cannot surrender.
0	But I am your cousin Cecily.
0	“‘Ah!’ said the Miller, ‘there is no work so delightful as the work one does for others.’ “‘It is certainly a great privilege to hear you talk,’ answered little Hans, sitting down, and wiping his forehead, ‘a very great privilege.
0	shrieked the twins, as they capered about.
0	How much that strange confession explained to him!
0	They say the veil of the Sanctuary has disappeared, do they not?
0	Dorian put the letter into his pocket.
0	The Renaissance knew of strange manners of poisoning--poisoning by a helmet and a lighted torch, by an embroidered glove and a jewelled fan, by a gilded pomander and by an amber chain.
0	They are the same as his lordship uses himself when he is dressing for dinner.
0	He passed over the Ghetto, and saw the old Jews bargaining with each other, and weighing out money in copper scales.
0	In his other novels, in ‘Pendennis,’ in ‘Philip,’ in ‘Vanity Fair’ even, at times, he is too conscious of the public, and spoils his work by appealing directly to the sympathies of the public, or by directly mocking at them.
0	Don't forget to call me at nine to-morrow."
0	I suppose I should retire from public life?
0	"He should have a pot of money waiting for him if Kelso did the right thing by him.
0	If you wish the best work I have ever done to be hidden from the world, I am satisfied.
0	“I am merely a visitor, a distinguished visitor.
0	I once asked a lady, who knew Thackeray intimately, whether he had had any model for Becky Sharp.
0	Light torches, bring forth the ivory tables, and the tables of jasper.
0	There are distinct social possibilities in Miss Cardew's profile.
0	Wherefore shouldst thou tarry here calling to thy love, seeing she comes not to thy call?
0	He has got as far as he can, and that is not far, is it?
0	asked Lord Henry, elevating his eyebrows.
0	[To Lane, who now enters.]
0	The people who work for an hour in the vineyard in the cool of the evening receive just as much reward as those who have toiled there all day long in the hot sun.
0	Some mornings it was a dull (almost Indian) red, then it would be vermilion, then a rich purple, and once when they came down for family prayers, according to the simple rites of the Free American Reformed Episcopalian Church, they found it a bright emerald-green.
0	About four years, I think, Jane.
0	It is through the voice of one crying in the wilderness that the ways of the gods must be prepared.
0	I will give them all to you.
0	"You must certainly send it next year to the Grosvenor.
0	Nothing in the world would induce me to go away with Lord Illingworth, or to leave you.
0	He had absolutely nothing to do, almost died of _ennui_, and became a confirmed misanthrope.
0	I am so fond of eating!
0	It was the result of the authority of the public in art-matters, and is to be deplored.
0	As soon as they had been informed they laughed still more.
0	Noiselessly, and with silver feet, the shadows crept in from the garden.
0	He had many faults, but it is a sad, sad blow.
0	The Minister could not help smiling at the handsome young scapegrace, and was a good deal touched at his devotion to Virginia, so leaning down from his horse, he patted him kindly on the shoulders, and said, "Well, Cecil, if you won't go back, I suppose you must come with me, but I must get you a hat at Ascot."
0	It is never of any use to oneself.
0	[_Puts her hand on his_.]
0	Then the clock struck the quarter, and he felt the time was come.
0	He himself was the monster, and it was at him that all the children had been laughing, and the little Princess who he had thought loved him—she too had been merely mocking at his ugliness, and making merry over his twisted limbs.
0	‘Our critics,’ he remarks with much wisdom, ‘seem hardly aware of the identity of the primal seeds of poetry and painting, nor that any true advancement in the serious study of one art co-generates a proportionate perfection in the other’; and he says elsewhere that if a man who does not admire Michael Angelo talks of his love for Milton, he is deceiving either himself or his listeners.
0	Only a quarter to four, father.
0	Some one has killed herself for love of you.
0	"When America was discovered," said the Radical member--and he began to give some wearisome facts.
0	The sky was an inverted cup of blue metal.
0	I have a business appointment that I am anxious .
0	"Pray, Dorian, pray," he murmured.
0	She had all the delicate grace of that Tanagra figurine that you have in your studio, Basil.
0	The inherited stupidity of the race--sound English common sense he jovially termed it--was shown to be the proper bulwark for society.
0	[_Makes a sign to him to take her cloak off_, _which he does_.]
0	The question of phantasmic apparitions, and the development of astral bodies, was of course quite a different matter, and really not under his control.
0	There's a sensible, intellectual girl!
0	Mother, I have just written to him.
0	Engaged to be married yet?
0	[Looks at Cecily, who makes no sign.]
0	Here is a bit of Florentine majolica, and here a rude lamp from some old Roman tomb.
0	Between you and him there are chasms.
0	I will not listen to his voice.
0	Of course, all crimes are not crimes against property, though such are the crimes that the English law, valuing what a man has more than what a man is, punishes with the harshest and most horrible severity, if we except the crime of murder, and regard death as worse than penal servitude, a point on which our criminals, I believe, disagree.
0	_A nervous temperament_, _with a tired look_.
0	Where, if not from the Impressionists, do we get those wonderful brown fogs that come creeping down our streets, blurring the gas-lamps and changing the houses into monstrous shadows?
0	[_Sinks down into a chair and buries his face in his hands_.]
0	‘A greater than I hath crowned thee,’ he cried, and he knelt before him.
0	‘I will not give thee anything,’ she muttered.
0	From the high tower of Thought we can look out at the world.
0	Gwendolen--Cecily--it is very painful for me to be forced to speak the truth.
0	For a painter is limited, not to what he sees in nature, but to what upon canvas may be seen.
0	"Was it all very bad?"
0	It is an ill omen.
0	That will do, Lane, thank you.
0	When first I was put into prison some people advised me to try and forget who I was.
0	That is a great error.
0	And, after all, you said something to me the day before yesterday that seemed to me at the time to be merely fanciful, but that I see now was absolutely true, and it holds the key to everything."
0	I have always been of opinion that emigration is the only thing for England."
0	"Don't know who he is?"
0	He complained bitterly of it to his friends, and pointed out, with a good deal of reason, some people may fancy, that the money was practically his own, having come to him from his mother, and that the forgery, such as it was, had been committed thirteen years before, which, to use his own phrase, was at least a _circonstance attenuante_.
0	I see him lying now on his back under those dull-green waters, with the heavy barges floating over him and long weeds catching in his hair.
0	"Far away beyond the pine-woods," he answered, in a low, dreamy voice, "there is a little garden.
0	I never told on you, though I was very much annoyed, and it was most ridiculous, the whole thing; for who ever heard of emerald-green blood?"
0	Believe me, Ernest, there is no fine art without self-consciousness, and self-consciousness and the critical spirit are one.
0	She would have done that for me.
0	The facts of art are diverse, but the essence of artistic effect is unity.
0	I began to wonder what on earth I should do when I caught sight of the play-bill.
0	Set a mark, if you wish, on each, but don’t punish the one and let the other go free.
0	Her coming here is monstrous, unbearable.
0	_The variance is suggestive of an almost complete separation of passion and intellect_, _as though thought and emotion were each isolated in its own sphere through some violence of will-power_.
0	Thy face is too happy.’  And he turned away scowling, and threw the shuttle across the loom, and the young King saw that it was threaded with a thread of gold.
0	Yes, always to others, have we not?
0	Transcribed from the 1913 Methuen and Co edition by David Price, email ccx074@pglaf.org                                 * * * * *                                 * * * * *                 _First Published_, _at 1s.
0	It would be unfair to expect other people to be as remarkable as oneself.
0	Being the eldest son you were naturally christened after your father.
0	If I bring her a red rose, I shall hold her in my arms, and she will lean her head upon my shoulder, and her hand will be clasped in mine.
0	Indeed, while fully appreciating modern art, he never lost sight of the importance of reproductions of the great masterpieces of the past, and all that he says about the value of plaster casts is quite admirable.
0	We might go as far as the schools and back.
0	I can’t find it, and Parker says it was not left in any of the rooms.
0	For the wonderful beauty that had so fascinated Basil Hallward, and many others besides him, seemed never to leave him.
0	The grass of the forest had been spotted with blood.
0	Virginia grew quite grave, and her little lips trembled like rose-leaves.
0	That is why it interests me.
0	But the beauty of the white flowers troubled him, and their odour was sweet in his nostrils, and there came another word into his lips, and he spake not of the wrath of God, but of the God whose name is Love.
0	One can use them in fiction, of course.
0	The method by which the fool arrives at his folly was as dear to him as the ultimate wisdom of the wise.
0	That is the comedy of life.
0	In fact, he was dressed for the character of "Jonas the Graveless, or the Corpse-Snatcher of Chertsey Barn," one of his most remarkable impersonations, and one which the Cantervilles had every reason to remember, as it was the real origin of their quarrel with their neighbour, Lord Rufford.
0	With these words the United States Minister laid the bottle down on a marble table, and, closing his door, retired to rest.
0	The ten commandments in every stroke of the pen, and the moral law all over the page.
0	Mr. Symonds, speaking of that great picture of Mantegna’s, now in Hampton Court, says that the artist has converted an antiquarian motive into a theme for melodies of line.
0	It was, however an extremely difficult "make-up," if I may use such a theatrical expression in connection with one of the greatest mysteries of the supernatural, or, to employ a more scientific term, the higher-natural world, and it took him fully three hours to make his preparations.
0	What of those whose ruin is due to him?
0	I want to tell you the rules.
0	when one has the winning cards.
0	Lady Bracknell: Miss Rose Leclercq.
0	Romance lives by repetition, and repetition converts an appetite into an art.
0	It's the only thing to do now.
0	Hallward got up from the seat and walked up and down the garden.
0	The colour came back to his cheeks, and a smile played about his lips.
0	“My roses are yellow,” it answered; “as yellow as the hair of the mermaiden who sits upon an amber throne, and yellower than the daffodil that blooms in the meadow before the mower comes with his scythe.
0	I think the Lower House by far the greatest blow to a happy married life that there has been since that terrible thing called the Higher Education of Women was invented.
0	I had a strange feeling that fate had in store for me exquisite joys and exquisite sorrows.
0	"Don't speak about those days, Dorian--they are dead."
0	The people flung themselves on the ground and hid their faces, but I would not do so.
0	It makes society so obvious.
0	And after six months nobody knew her.
0	you have saved his life; what have you done with mine?
0	Take me away, Dorian--take me away with you, where we can be quite alone.
0	"To some little actress or other."
0	[_Shakes hands with her_, _and bows somewhat distantly to_ MRS.
0	I did not find them.
0	She is more than an individual.
0	But we who are born at the close of this wonderful age are at once too cultured and too critical, too intellectually subtle and too curious of exquisite pleasures, to accept any speculations about life in exchange for life itself.
0	How pale you are looking, Gertrude!
0	"I must keep an opportunity for retreat."
0	You don’t mean to say that this charming, clever young lady has been so foolish as to accept you?
0	‘“The god is at the feast,” he cried.
0	Knowest thou not that I am Emperor of this city?”  But I made him no answer.
0	A noise in the street attracted his attention, and, in his artistic interest in modern life, he pushed aside the blind for a moment.
0	Later on, what at first had been merely a natural instinct was elevated into a self-conscious science.
0	“A delightful voice, certainly,” continued the Frog; “I hope you will come over to the duck-pond.
0	The public dislike novelty because they are afraid of it.
0	Of course, we should be very sorry to lose her, but I think that a mother who doesn’t part with a daughter every season has no real affection.
0	To-night it may fill one with that ΕΡΩΣ ΤΩΝ ΑΔΥΝΑΤΩΝ, that _Amour de l’Impossible_, which falls like a madness on many who think they live securely and out of reach of harm, so that they sicken suddenly with the poison of unlimited desire, and, in the infinite pursuit of what they may not obtain, grow faint and swoon or stumble.
0	Cunizza, the sister of Ezzelin, the lady of Sordello’s heart, is there, and Folco, the passionate singer of Provence, who in sorrow for Azalais forsook the world, and the Canaanitish harlot whose soul was the first that Christ redeemed.
0	The things people say of a man do not alter a man.
0	At what hour did this happen?
0	It makes men so very attractive.
0	Hall described Henry VIII, on his way to the Tower previous to his coronation, as wearing "a jacket of raised gold, the placard embroidered with diamonds and other rich stones, and a great bauderike about his neck of large balasses."
0	The post on her left was occupied by Mr. Erskine of Treadley, an old gentleman of considerable charm and culture, who had fallen, however, into bad habits of silence, having, as he explained once to Lady Agatha, said everything that he had to say before he was thirty.
0	Your name happened to come up in conversation, in connection with the miniatures you have lent to the exhibition at the Dudley.
0	[After examining Cecily carefully through a lorgnette.]
0	And he wiped his shiny forehead.
0	Later on, a short time before his death, as he sat at a feast, the woman came in and poured costly perfumes on his hair.
0	He started back as if in surprise.
0	Angel of the Lord God, what dost thou here with thy sword?
0	Then he rang the bell and gave it to his valet, with orders to return as soon as possible and to bring the things with him.
0	"I am so sorry you have given yourself the trouble of coming round, Mr. Hubbard.
0	It will be a marvellous thing—the true personality of man—when we see it.
0	You must allow me to be the best judge of that, John.
0	'From little Cecily with her fondest love.'
0	I have the right to tell you never to enter this house, never to attempt to come near my wife— MRS. ERLYNNE.
0	“Now it happened that one evening little Hans was sitting by his fireside when a loud rap came at the door.
0	He had been very wicked, but he was really sorry for all that he had done, and he gave me this box of beautiful jewels before he died."
0	_After a little time she is joined by some of the guests_, _and passes with them into another reception-room_.]
0	Repentance is quite out of date.
0	One should sympathise with the joy, the beauty, the colour of life.
0	And if we grow tired of an antique time, and desire to realise our own age in all its weariness and sin, are there not books that can make us live more in one single hour than life can make us live in a score of shameful years?
0	Once in his life may a man send his Soul away, but he who receiveth back his Soul must keep it with him for ever, and this is his punishment and his reward.’ And the young Fisherman grew pale and clenched his hands and cried, ‘She was a false Witch in that she told me not that.’ ‘Nay,’ answered his Soul, ‘but she was true to Him she worships, and whose servant she will be ever.’ And when the young Fisherman knew that he could no longer get rid of his Soul, and that it was an evil Soul and would abide with him always, he fell upon the ground weeping bitterly.
0	[_Rushes over and kneels down bedside his mother_.]
0	It haunts me in my moments of pleasure.
0	You don’t realise how I was tempted.
0	He is going to make a speech in the House to-morrow night in favour of the idea.
0	I feel a draught, sir, I feel it distinctly.
0	One of the best copies of the ‘Songs of Innocence and Experience’ that is now in existence was wrought specially for him.
0	I would have covered the whole street in front of your house with flowers for you to walk on.
0	What on earth do you mean by a Bunburyist?
0	Even the common uneducated audience of the pit and gallery lost their interest in the play.
0	After a short time, he came to himself and looked round with a dazed expression.
0	There is more to be said for stupidity than people imagine.
0	[_Takes the letter and writes her husband’s name on it_.]
0	my dear, you need not be nervous.
0	A gross deception has been practised on both of us.
0	And when he had finished his word the people wept, and the Priest went back to the sacristy, and his eyes were full of tears.
0	Like gilded bees the stars cluster round her.
0	He had that curious love of green, which in individuals is always the sign of a subtle artistic temperament, and in nations is said to denote a laxity, if not a decadence of morals.
0	You have told me many strange things to-night, Gilbert.
0	You should have seen Arabella’s expression!
0	There is an icy wind, and I hear ... wherefore do I hear in the air this beating of wings?
0	Jesus did not accept that view.
0	She has not merely art, consummate art-instinct, in her, but she has personality also; and you have often told me that it is personalities, not principles, that move the age."
0	The vulgarity of the twins, and the gross materialism of Mrs. Otis, were naturally extremely annoying, but what really distressed him most was that he had been unable to wear the suit of mail.
0	And, besides, might not his nature grow finer, after all?
0	GOLD Stick, that is what he said.
0	She has been innocent, and the black hands of jealousy have crushed her reedlike throat.
0	Well, you were silly, Arthur.
0	The daily sacrifice, more awful really than all the sacrifices of the antique world, stirred him as much by its superb rejection of the evidence of the senses as by the primitive simplicity of its elements and the eternal pathos of the human tragedy that it sought to symbolize.
0	But I should like to dance with Lady Agatha, Duchess.
0	"A very charming artistic basis for ethics, Dorian!
0	As a rule, people who act lead the most commonplace lives.
0	"Was the poor fellow married?
0	If there is not, the Ambassador will certainly have to be recalled.
0	Do you mean to say you have not read _The Times_ leading article on Robert Chiltern’s career?
0	I have finished my writing for the day, Lady Hunstanton.
0	But what own are you?
0	And as for your blunder in taking my wife’s fan from here and then leaving it about in Darlington’s rooms, it is unpardonable.
0	Every afternoon, when school was over, the children came and played with the Giant.
0	If by that time—and you will have had heaps of opportunity—you have made an announcement to the House in the terms I wish, I shall hand you back your letter with the prettiest thanks, and the best, or at any rate the most suitable, compliment I can think of.
0	Si l’on s’en rapportait aux indications du poète, Agamemnon serait vêtu d’un sceptre et Achille d’une épée.’  But with Shakespeare it is very different.
0	The mere cadence of the sentences, the subtle monotony of their music, so full as it was of complex refrains and movements elaborately repeated, produced in the mind of the lad, as he passed from chapter to chapter, a form of reverie, a malady of dreaming, that made him unconscious of the falling day and creeping shadows.
0	May I not have an answer to my request?
0	The Infanta accordingly rose up with much dignity, and having given orders that the little dwarf was to dance again for her after the hour of siesta, and conveyed her thanks to the young Count of Tierra-Nueva for his charming reception, she went back to her apartments, the children following in the same order in which they had entered.
0	Until yesterday I had no idea that there were any families or persons whose origin was a Terminus.
0	That evening, at eight-thirty, exquisitely dressed and wearing a large button-hole of Parma violets, Dorian Gray was ushered into Lady Narborough's drawing-room by bowing servants.
0	Don’t make any terrible mistake, Lady Chiltern.
0	[_Taking off his left-hand glove_.]
0	It was his solemn duty to appear in the corridor once a week, and to gibber from the large oriel window on the first and third Wednesdays in every month, and he did not see how he could honourably escape from his obligations.
0	The Pharisees, for instance, say that there are angels, and the Sadducees declare that angels do not exist.
0	In Mr. Hare’s production of _As You Like It_ at the St. James’s Theatre, for instance, the whole point of Orlando’s complaint that he is brought up like a peasant, and not like a gentleman, was spoiled by the gorgeousness of his dress, and the splendid apparel worn by the banished Duke and his friends was quite out of place.
0	Do you allude to me, Miss Cardew, as an entanglement?
0	"Except in America," rejoined Lord Henry languidly.
0	Do you think she would have married me if she had known that the origin of my fortune is such as it is, the basis of my career such as it is, and that I had done a thing that I suppose most men would call shameful and dishonourable?
0	A faint perfume of jasmine came through the open window.
0	If after I am free a friend of mine gave a feast, and did not invite me to it, I should not mind a bit.
0	Learn from him to what you owe your position.
0	The pen dropped from Dorian Gray's hand, and he felt as if his heart had suddenly stopped beating.
0	Besides, you are interested, I know, in International Canal schemes.
0	To regret one's own experiences is to arrest one's own development.
0	To save my poor, innocent, trusting boy from the machinations of any other girl there are no lengths to which I would not go.
0	Even to the sea will I return, and to the little bay where she is wont to sing, and I will call to her and tell her the evil I have done and the evil thou hast wrought on me.’ And his Soul tempted him and said, ‘Who is thy love, that thou shouldst return to her?
0	A critic cannot be fair in the ordinary sense of the word.
0	By the Ilyssus, says Arnold somewhere, there was no Higginbotham.
0	It’s as demoralising as cigarettes, and far more expensive.
0	Upon the other hand, the anachronisms are really few in number, and not very important, and, had Shakespeare’s attention been drawn to them by a brother artist, he would probably have corrected them.
0	Pray ask the lady to come out here; Mr. Worthing is sure to be back soon.
0	"At least you are like it in appearance.
0	For a dreamer is one who can only find his way by moonlight, and his punishment is that he sees the dawn before the rest of the world.
0	It was the imagination that made each crime bear its misshapen brood.
0	Tell me something about yourself.
0	I, who have no right to any name.
0	I burst into tears at what he said, and told him that while there was much amongst the definite charges that was quite untrue and transferred to me by revolting malice, still that my life had been full of perverse pleasures, and that unless he accepted that as a fact about me and realised it to the full I could not possibly be friends with him any more, or ever be in his company.
0	But a tragic ending of this kind, though touched by Hamlet's humour with something of the surprise and justice of comedy, is really not for such as they.
0	He is going to be there, and I am to play Juliet.
0	It is fortunate for us, however, that Nature is so imperfect, as otherwise we should have no art at all.
0	They bring with them memories of pleasant days together.
0	My dear fellow, she has explained every demmed thing.
0	A great poet, a really great poet, is the most unpoetical of all creatures.
0	My own business always bores me to death.
0	Women are hard on each other.
0	And the Hare said to him, ‘Why art thou weeping?
0	In fact, I am going to be his.
0	He said to man, ‘You have a wonderful personality.
0	"Yes, I thought you would like it," replied his host, rising from his chair.
0	It is a horrible lie!
0	‘The world is wide, and there is Heaven also, and Hell, and that dim twilight house that lies between.
0	I dismissed her at once without a character.—No, I remember I passed her on to my sister; poor dear Sir George is so short-sighted, I thought it wouldn’t matter.
0	Let us go to the club, then.
0	Are they not greater than the men and women they sing of?
0	He is Fact, occupied as Fact usually is, with trying to reproduce Fiction, and what we see in him is repeated on an extended scale throughout the whole of life.
0	"I have known something of both.
0	Women who had wildly adored him, and for his sake had braved all social censure and set convention at defiance, were seen to grow pallid with shame or horror if Dorian Gray entered the room.
0	And the interest was not confined merely to classical dress, or the dress of foreign nations; there was also a good deal of research, amongst theatrical people especially, into the ancient costume of England itself: and when Shakespeare, in the prologue to one of his plays, expresses his regret at being unable to produce helmets of the period, he is speaking as an Elizabethan manager and not merely as an Elizabethan poet.
0	But you must not think I don't like good music.
0	Let her remain your mistress!
0	It must be a delightful city, and possess all the attractions of the next world."
0	Byron’s personality, for instance, was terribly wasted in its battle with the stupidity, and hypocrisy, and Philistinism of the English.
0	After a time they judge them.
0	It would be nearer the truth to say that my parents seem to have lost me .
0	Besides, and this is perhaps the most complete answer to Lord Lytton’s theory, it must be remembered that neither in costume nor in dialogue is beauty the dramatist’s primary aim at all.
0	_A large sofa is in front of fireplace R._ _At the back of the stage a curtain is drawn across the window_.
0	On the 14th of February last.
0	Dear lady, I am in such suspense!
0	But what an hour to call!
0	[LADY CHILTERN _goes out through the door leading to her boudoir_.]
0	Of which you know so little, Lord Goring— LORD GORING.
0	As it is extremely old, and consequently a good deal out of repair, you may perhaps think fit to comply with her request.
0	[Moving to sofa and kneeling upon it.]
0	He is not interested in _you_.
0	The twins lay in wait for him on several occasions, and strewed the passages with nutshells every night to the great annoyance of their parents and the servants, but it was of no avail.
0	The owl beat against the window-panes, the raven croaked from the old yew-tree, and the wind wandered moaning round the house like a lost soul; but the Otis family slept unconscious of their doom, and high above the rain and storm he could hear the steady snoring of the Minister for the United States.
0	That is something—I am glad I have that!
0	The only excuse for making a useless thing is that one admires it intensely.
0	I saved you last night.
0	And on the top-most spray of the Rose-tree there blossomed a marvellous rose, petal following petal, as song followed song.
0	Indeed, I would call criticism a creation within a creation.
0	I find him in the curves of certain lines, in the loveliness and subtleties of certain colours.
0	Therefore is it the god, and we worship it.”  And I looked into the mirror, and it was even as he had said to me.
0	She is embroidering passion-flowers on a satin gown for the loveliest of the Queen’s maids-of-honour to wear at the next Court-ball.
0	But he always made an exception in favour of Dorian Gray.
0	It can be poisoned, or made perfect.
0	You must let me introduce myself.
0	It was easy enough on the sandy plains by windy Ilion to send the notched arrow from the painted bow, or to hurl against the shield of hide and flamelike brass the long ash-handled spear.
0	Morality does not help me.
0	Then Dorian looked at Lord Henry and said, with a heavy sigh, "It is a bad omen, Harry, a very bad omen."
0	You were to me something apart from common life, a thing pure, noble, honest, without stain.
0	[_Moves away R._] LADY PLYMDALE.
0	He was very nearly blackballed at a West End club of which his birth and social position fully entitled him to become a member, and it was said that on one occasion, when he was brought by a friend into the smoking-room of the Churchill, the Duke of Berwick and another gentleman got up in a marked manner and went out.
0	"What happened was simply this.
0	“How shabby indeed!” cried the Town Councillors, who always agreed with the Mayor; and they went up to look at it.
0	To have a capacity for a passion and not to realise it, is to make oneself incomplete and limited.
0	She could still be his wife.
0	A strange sense of loss came over him.
0	Speak again, Jokanaan, and tell me what I must do.
0	There was something about Dorian that charmed everybody.
0	You might see nothing in him.
0	"I am in Lady Agatha's black books at present," answered Dorian with a funny look of penitence.
0	The Princess Salomé desires to see him.
0	No; she had died for love of him, and love would always be a sacrament to him now.
0	After a time, he went away and stood in an adjoining portico and watched.
0	The Times, while depreciating the drama, gave its author credit for a _tour de force_, in being capable of writing a French play for Madame Bernhardt, and this drew from him the following letter:--      The Times, Thursday, March 2, 1893, p. 4.
0	But the happiness of a married man, my dear Gerald, depends on the people he has not married.
0	Lady Chiltern is a woman of the very highest principles, I am glad to say.
0	Behind joy and laughter there may be a temperament, coarse, hard and callous.
0	The record of their lives is absolutely without interest.
0	He himself would not see it.
0	I like to find out people for myself.
0	His name would appear in the Army Lists of the period, I suppose, Aunt Augusta?
0	There couldn’t be such a thing.
0	It is a pity, for he is so ugly that he might have made the King smile.’ ‘But why will he not dance again?’ asked the Infanta, laughing.
0	If they have not opened the eyes of the blind, they have at least given great encouragement to the short-sighted, and while their leaders may have all the inexperience of old age, their young men are far too wise to be ever sensible.
0	Why on earth do you say that?
0	Some one has dropped a diamond brooch!
0	Salomé, come drink a little wine with me.
0	Nay, without thought or conscious desire, might not things external to ourselves vibrate in unison with our moods and passions, atom calling to atom in secret love or strange affinity?
0	We must throw it away.”  So they threw it on a dust-heap where the dead Swallow was also lying.
0	The nineteenth century dislike of realism is the rage of Caliban seeing his own face in a glass.
0	She danced out of the door.
0	We must make an example.
0	There are others of our own day who seek to appeal to mere emotional sympathies, or to the shallow dogmas of some vague system of abstract ethics.
0	Chiltern’s speech last night on this Argentine Canal scheme was one of the finest pieces of oratory ever delivered in the House since Canning.
0	[_Noise in the banqueting-hall._] What an uproar!
0	That is the only way in which it can be paid.
0	I will not marry him.
0	But he should shower on us everything we don’t want.
0	We are not worthy of them.
0	And on the morrow the Magician came to him, and said, ‘If to-day thou bringest me the piece of red gold I will set thee free, but if thou bringest it not I will surely slay thee.’ So the Star-Child went to the wood, and all day long he searched for the piece of red gold, but nowhere could he find it.
0	Harry, promise me that you will never lend that book to any one.
0	You have told me that all art is, in its essence, immoral.
0	He got up and looked out into the street.
0	Yes, father, if I listen attentively.
0	Can she feel, or know, or listen?
0	And if it is all taken away from me now?
0	On a yacht one is safe."
0	For what is this trouble of thine about the things of sin?
0	The truth has always stifled me.
0	net_, _in 1913_                                 * * * * * _This Book was First Published_                        _1891_ _Second Edition_                                       _1894_ _First Published_ (_Third Edition_) _by Methuen        _1908_ and Co._ _Fourth Edition_                                       _1909_ _Fifth Edition_                                        _1911_                                 * * * * *                                 * * * * *                   _A DIALOGUE_.
0	But wherever there is a romantic movement in art there somehow, and under some form, is Christ, or the soul of Christ.
0	I am telling you the truth.
0	I don't want to have it hung up.
0	That is just what I should like to marry.
0	They are not marvellous Macbeths and terrible Vautrins.
0	Mind you bring me back something nice from your travels—not an Indian shawl—on no account an Indian shawl.
0	You must be quite aware that what you propose is out of the question.
0	It is not to the Samaritans that Messias shall come.
0	Olivia, I have a curious feeling of absolute faintness.
0	The annoying thing is that the wretches can be perfectly happy without us.
0	The Bristol at eight o'clock; and I will get Basil."
0	They are such an essential part of one's personality."
0	_Sees paper knife on bureau_, _and with it cuts cover from book_.
0	Children begin by loving their parents; as they grow older they judge them; sometimes they forgive them.
0	No, sir; it is not a very interesting subject.
0	You can't feel what I feel.
0	Let it be for good, not for evil.
0	The result is I am in gaol.
0	There had been a great deal of difficulty at first about the inscription on Sir Simon's tombstone, but finally it had been decided to engrave on it simply the initials of the old gentleman's name, and the verse from the library window.
0	Then we lay down on our carpets, and waited for the dawn.
0	No, the side view is what I want.
0	I thought--" "You thought it was my husband.
0	Nor is his work without interest.
0	I think we might leave the two brothers together.
0	_Then takes it up_, _and reads it again slowly_.]
0	I have just learnt this, and much else with it, from Lord Goring.
0	But every one has some weak point.
0	How can I defend myself against her?
0	I may be of no use to him, but I want my son.
0	From the South cometh everything that is precious.
0	There is much more before me.
0	But I have paid conscience money many times.
0	Your picture has taught me that.
0	May I ask are you staying in London long?
0	Lord Henry Wotton is perfectly right.
0	asked the duchess after a pause.
0	It seems that a lady once gravely asked the remorseful Academician, as you call him, if his celebrated picture of ‘A Spring-Day at Whiteley’s,’ or, ‘Waiting for the Last Omnibus,’ or some subject of that kind, was all painted by hand?
0	He goes to see her continually, and stops for hours at a time, and while he is there she is not at home to any one.
0	One of the finest effects I have ever seen on the stage was Salvini, in the last act of _Lear_, tearing the plume from Kent’s cap and applying it to Cordelia’s lips when he came to the line,                         This feather stirs; she lives!
0	I am very much interested in Mr. Gray at present.
0	I hope not, Lady Markby.
0	When she made her great public appearance she spun round nineteen times before she went out, and each time that she did so she threw into the air seven pink stars.
0	When the captain of the guard saw me, he wondered.
0	It creates for one a past of which one has been ignorant, and fills one with a sense of sorrows that have been hidden from one’s tears.
0	In America those are the people we respect most.
0	* * * * * And he fell asleep again and dreamed, and this was his dream.
0	The lady is in that room, my lord.
0	With the imitative and realistic tendencies of his day he had no sympathy and he tells us frankly that his great admiration for Fuseli was largely due to the fact that the little Swiss did not consider it necessary that an artist should paint only what he sees.
0	In words or in colours, in music or in marble, behind the painted masks of an AEschylean play, or through some Sicilian shepherds' pierced and jointed reeds, the man and his message must have been revealed.
0	_Sound of violin heard from music-room_.]
0	And the altruistic virtues have really prevented the carrying out of this aim.
0	She will hang the night with stars so that I may walk abroad in the darkness without stumbling, and send the wind over my footprints so that none may track me to my hurt: she will cleanse me in great waters, and with bitter herbs make me whole.
0	And she sang a marvellous song.
0	Arthur, I am very sorry, but the thing is quite out of the question.
0	Have you found out at what time Lord Windermere came in last night?
0	With his subtle smile, Lord Henry watched him.
0	There was a rattle of cups and saucers and the hissing of a fluted Georgian urn.
0	And I must say I think you are very hard on modern life, Lady Windermere.
0	How do you do, Lady Windermere?
0	He was seen by a great multitude of people talking with angels.
0	It is a sad thing to think of, but there is no doubt that genius lasts longer than beauty.
0	I told her that I loved her, and she said she was not worthy to be my wife.
0	What a perfect angel you are, Cecily.
0	I remember quite well how I used to tell her that I did not want to eat my bread in sorrow, or to pass any night weeping and watching for a more bitter dawn.
0	It seemed to him that misfortune followed wherever he went.
0	You wouldn’t believe at what hours he comes home.
0	They are limited to their century.
0	It is a very ungentlemanly thing to read a private cigarette case.
0	This letter of yours, Gertrude, makes me feel that nothing that the world may do can hurt me now.
0	It is through disobedience that progress has been made, through disobedience and through rebellion.
0	As he thought of Hetty Merton, he began to wonder if the portrait in the locked room had changed.
0	His mode of dressing, and the particular styles that from time to time he affected, had their marked influence on the young exquisites of the Mayfair balls and Pall Mall club windows, who copied him in everything that he did, and tried to reproduce the accidental charm of his graceful, though to him only half-serious, fopperies.
0	That great inheritance throw not away—that tower of ivory do not destroy.
0	Yet one had ancestors in literature as well as in one's own race, nearer perhaps in type and temperament, many of them, and certainly with an influence of which one was more absolutely conscious.
0	The face was saturnine and swarthy, and the sensual lips seemed to be twisted with disdain.
0	The world has cried out against us both, but it has always worshipped you.
0	A chair or something fell in the room.
0	[_Points to the curtain across the window_.]
0	May I show them to you?
0	You went away with the child-diplomatist.
0	“What I sing of, he suffers—what is joy to me, to him is pain.
0	In fact, they only believe in things that you cannot see.
0	You are under some strange mistake.
0	Bitter, bitter was the pain, and wilder and wilder grew her song, for she sang of the Love that is perfected by Death, of the Love that dies not in the tomb.
0	And who is the most ornamental?
0	What could atone for that?
0	Virginia trembled, a cold shudder ran through her, and for a few moments there was silence.
0	It has been remarked that Wilde confuses Herod the Great (_Mat._ xi.
0	We might make ourselves spiritual by detaching ourselves from action, and become perfect by the rejection of energy.
0	For the space of three years he wandered over the world, and in the world there was neither love nor loving-kindness nor charity for him, but it was even such a world as he had made for himself in the days of his great pride.
0	Our blood quickens through terrible pulses.
0	With pleasure, and I’ll drive you down to Downing Street afterwards, Chiltern.
0	It would be better for us both.
0	The only use of our _attachés_ is that they supply their friends with excellent tobacco.
0	[Algernon and Cecily look at him in indignant amazement.]
0	He has a right to decide for himself.
0	I am due at the Athenaeum.
0	She has survived all her creditors, and she shows wonderful presence of mind.
0	We are quite by ourselves here.
0	The wood seemed to him to have become suddenly alive with faces.
0	Then she enlisted Life in her service, and using some of life’s external forms, she created an entirely new race of beings, whose sorrows were more terrible than any sorrow man has ever felt, whose joys were keener than lover’s joys, who had the rage of the Titans and the calm of the gods, who had monstrous and marvellous sins, monstrous and marvellous virtues.
0	It is rather Quixotic of you.
0	She never gets confused over her dates, and I always do.
0	It is almost an epidemic amongst them, I have been told.
0	‘“Tell me in what forest, and I will ride with him,” I answered.
0	What sort of love is that which needs to have hate as its brother?
0	But dear Gertrude Chiltern is always telling me that I should have some serious purpose in life.
0	Poor old Lord Mortlake, who had only two topics of conversation, his gout and his wife!
0	And what have you been doing lately that astonishes you?
0	He whom I serve is richer than all the kings of this world, and has their dominions.’ ‘What then shall I give thee,’ he cried, ‘if thy price be neither gold nor silver?’ The Witch stroked his hair with her thin white hand.
0	Good afternoon, dear Algernon, I hope you are behaving very well.
0	Costume is a growth, an evolution, and a most important, perhaps the most important, sign of the manners, customs and mode of life of each century.
0	There is far more to be learned from the sinner.
0	Yes, but you don't say it.
0	From such materials, for instance, as the disk of Theodosius, materials with which the majority of people are probably not very familiar, Mr. E. W. Godwin, one of the most artistic spirits of this century in England, created the marvellous loveliness of the first act of _Claudian_, and showed us the life of Byzantium in the fourth century, not by a dreary lecture and a set of grimy casts, not by a novel which requires a glossary to explain it, but by the visible presentation before us of all the glory of that great town.
0	If I am hounded from public life?
0	One’s regret is that society should be constructed on such a basis that man has been forced into a groove in which he cannot freely develop what is wonderful, and fascinating, and delightful in him—in which, in fact, he misses the true pleasure and joy of living.
0	"If you let any one have it but me, Basil, I shall never forgive you!"
0	His eye fell on a large, purple satin coverlet heavily embroidered with gold, a splendid piece of late seventeenth-century Venetian work that his grandfather had found in a convent near Bologna.
0	He brushed them away hastily and looked again at the picture.
0	They knew that Life gains from art not merely spirituality, depth of thought and feeling, soul-turmoil or soul-peace, but that she can form herself on the very lines and colours of art, and can reproduce the dignity of Pheidias as well as the grace of Praxiteles.
0	Nobody will waste his life in accumulating things, and the symbols for things.
0	From time to time the world cries out against some charming artistic poet, because, to use its hackneyed and silly phrase, he has ‘nothing to say.’ But if he had something to say, he would probably say it, and the result would be tedious.
0	At least we all should have.
0	It took away all the life from the verse.
0	"All right, sir," answered the man, "you will be there in an hour," and after his fare had got in he turned his horse round and drove rapidly towards the river.
0	Still leading his life of pleasure?
0	He would never bring misery upon any one.
0	You made me get you an invitation to my wife’s ball.
0	There is war in the mountains of Tartary, and the kings of each side are calling to thee.
0	I have mantles that have been brought from the land of the Seres, and bracelets decked about with carbuncles and with jade that come from the city of Euphrates.... What desirest thou more than this, Salomé?
0	Ernest never mentioned to me that he had a brother.
0	"Where I heard the name of Dorian Gray."
0	Good-bye, Lord Henry, you are quite delightful and dreadfully demoralizing.
0	Think you I am like the King of Egypt, who gives no feast to his guests but that he shows them a corpse?
0	It is a privilege to meet him.
0	Won’t you come over, Lord Darlington?
0	"The whole thing is hideous and cruel.
0	You don’t think it will rain, Lord Darlington, do you?
0	But when she does find me out, she makes no row at all.
0	Indeed to him the deformed figure of Richard was of as much value as Juliet’s loveliness; he sets the serge of the radical beside the silks of the lord, and sees the stage effects to be got from each: he has as much delight in Caliban as he has in Ariel, in rags as he has in cloth of gold, and recognises the artistic beauty of ugliness.
0	You’ll thank Lord Illingworth, mother, won’t you?
0	At first he appealed to the few: now he has educated the many.
0	One approaches the whole of history from a different standpoint.
0	As the inevitable result of this substitution of an imitative for a creative medium, this surrender of an imaginative form, we have the modern English melodrama.
0	The cold philanthropies, the ostentatious public charities, the tedious formalisms so dear to the middle-class mind, he exposed with utter and relentless scorn.
0	He is always most polite to me.
0	‘Look at his hunched back, and his crooked legs,’ and they began to titter.
0	It is a handsome bracelet.
0	Shakespeare hurls Hamlet into active life, and makes him realise his mission by effort.
0	“Give me a red rose,” she cried, “and I will sing you my sweetest song.” But the Tree shook its head.
0	Robert is coming upstairs with the letter in his hand.
0	TIME: _The Present_      _The action of the play is completed within twenty-four hours_.
0	You are distressed about your son leaving you, Mrs. Arbuthnot?
0	I never liked him, but I had nothing to complain about.
0	‘And is it not winter now?’ And the man answered nothing, but stirred not from the threshold.
0	They surrounded him, and asked him his name.
0	Kingsley’s prose was not of a very fine quality.
0	I'll speak to Bunbury, Aunt Augusta, if he is still conscious, and I think I can promise you he'll be all right by Saturday.
0	How long have you known her?"
0	One can feel so much, and no more.
0	She had been shallow and unworthy.
0	I have introduced you to every one as Ernest.
0	Something tells me that we are going to be great friends.
0	A day in prison on which one does not weep is a day on which one's heart is hard, not a day on which one's heart is happy.
0	MRS. CHEVELEY [_Leaning back in her chair_.]
0	I’m sure I don’t know half the people who come to my house.
0	Ultimately, in its due course, this taste is to become critical and self-conscious, but at first it is to exist purely as a cultivated instinct, and ‘he who has received this true culture of the inner man will with clear and certain vision perceive the omissions and faults in art or nature, and with a taste that cannot err, while he praises, and finds his pleasure in what is good, and receives it into his soul, and so becomes good and noble, he will rightly blame and hate the bad, now in the days of his youth, even before he is able to know the reason why’: and so, when, later on, the critical and self-conscious spirit develops in him, he ‘will recognise and salute it as a friend with whom his education has made him long familiar.’  I need hardly say, Ernest, how far we in England have fallen short of this ideal, and I can imagine the smile that would illuminate the glossy face of the Philistine if one ventured to suggest to him that the true aim of education was the love of beauty, and that the methods by which education should work were the development of temperament, the cultivation of taste, and the creation of the critical spirit.
0	But I can fancy that if an artist produced a work of art in England that immediately on its appearance was recognised by the public, through their medium, which is the public press, as a work that was quite intelligible and highly moral, he would begin to seriously question whether in its creation he had really been himself at all, and consequently whether the work was not quite unworthy of him, and either of a thoroughly second-rate order, or of no artistic value whatsoever.
0	Of course I will, darling.
0	A man should always have an occupation of some kind.
0	The portrait must be hidden away at all costs.
0	It was some consolation that Harry was to be there, and when the door opened and he heard his slow musical voice lending charm to some insincere apology, he ceased to feel bored.
0	So the day is come, the day of the Lord, and I hear upon the mountains the feet of Him who shall be the Saviour of the world.
0	It was simply to say that he sent him round the evening paper, and a book that might interest him, and that he would be at the club at eight-fifteen.
0	She approaches; she is nigh.
0	I can quite understand that were ‘Macbeth’ produced for the first time before a modern London audience, many of the people present would strongly and vigorously object to the introduction of the witches in the first act, with their grotesque phrases and their ridiculous words.
0	She was a curious woman, whose dresses always looked as if they had been designed in a rage and put on in a tempest.
0	Through vanity he had spared her.
0	“Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow,” said the Prince, “will you not stay with me one night longer?” “It is winter,” answered the Swallow, “and the chill snow will soon be here.
0	Why, even her children are not allowed to live with her.
0	It always makes people think that he beats her when they’re alone.
0	He may do these things if He will.
0	Yes, it was better to let Lord Henry in, and to explain to him the new life he was going to lead, to quarrel with him if it became necessary to quarrel, to part if parting was inevitable.
0	In fact, I usually say what I really think.
0	But so has my portion been meted out to me; and during the last few months I have, after terrible difficulties and struggles, been able to comprehend some of the lessons hidden in the heart of pain.
0	They used to tell us at school that some of our states are as big as France and England put together.
0	He is quite a _protégé_ of mine.
0	He laid particular stress on your German, as he was leaving for town yesterday.
0	It is obvious that our social spheres have been widely different.
0	"And I am afraid, Francis, that I have another errand for you.
0	For, after all, what is our primary debt to the Greeks?
0	It is most gratifying to find oneself so popular.” “Ahem!
0	After a little time he returned and said that he could not find Miss Virginia anywhere.
0	Well, at any rate, may I know if it is politics or pleasure?
0	"My dear fellow, I am not quite serious.
0	[_Holding out her handsome arm_.]
0	He was wrapped in furs, and he roared all day about the garden, and blew the chimney-pots down.
0	I have never seen you really and absolutely angry, but I can fancy how delightful you looked.
0	One's own life--that is the important thing.
0	‘And when that day dawns, or sunset reddens, how joyous we shall all be!
0	I thought you said there was a sapphire on the head, dear?
0	You know her curiously shrill voice?"
0	The hero of the wonderful novel that had so influenced his life had himself known this curious fancy.
0	_Scene_: _the Library of a country_                        _house in Nottinghamshire_.
0	The only thing he considers of any importance is whether one believes it oneself.
0	Let us call things by their proper names.
0	much rather!—than have been always pure .
0	What the worm was to the corpse, his sins would be to the painted image on the canvas.
0	Half of the audience went out, tramping in heavy boots and laughing.
0	The most wonderful Bunbury I have ever had in my life.
0	I wanted to have you all to myself.
0	The appeal of all art is simply to the artistic temperament.
0	It is much pleasanter being here with you.
0	What I want to know is this.
0	It was from within, apparently, that the foulness and horror had come.
0	That is exactly what things were originally made for.
0	If I were your mother I would insist on your going.
0	I found that I could do nothing.
0	In Alphonso's Clericalis Disciplina a serpent was mentioned with eyes of real jacinth, and in the romantic history of Alexander, the Conqueror of Emathia was said to have found in the vale of Jordan snakes "with collars of real emeralds growing on their backs."
0	“No red rose in all my garden!” he cried, and his beautiful eyes filled with tears.
0	The true critic will, indeed, always be sincere in his devotion to the principle of beauty, but he will seek for beauty in every age and in each school, and will never suffer himself to be limited to any settled custom of thought or stereotyped mode of looking at things.
0	The secret of life is to resist temptation, Lady Stutfield.
0	He has his tedious _document humain_, his miserable little _coin de la création_, into which he peers with his microscope.
0	Must be strolling back to Hunstanton.
0	cried the Swallow, but nobody minded, and when the moon rose he flew back to the Happy Prince.
0	Great earrings of silver dragged down the thick lobes of his ears, and in his hands he had a pair of ivory scales.
0	"Not with women," said the duchess, shaking her head; "and women rule the world.
0	That Humanitarian Sympathy wars against Nature, by securing the survival of the failure, may make the man of science loathe its facile virtues.
0	* * * * * And after the second year was over, the Soul came down to the shore of the sea, and called to the young Fisherman, and he rose out of the deep and said, ‘Why dost thou call to me?’ And the Soul answered, ‘Come nearer, that I may speak with thee, for I have seen marvellous things.’ So he came nearer, and couched in the shallow water, and leaned his head upon his hand and listened.
0	There were two cries heard, the cry of a hare in pain, which is dreadful, the cry of a man in agony, which is worse.
0	Indeed the only good background for a play in modern dress which I have ever seen was the dark grey and cream-white scene of the first act of the _Princesse Georges_ in Mrs. Langtry’s production.
0	I go on board to-night for India, and I must do my job first.
0	What will the other dandies say?
0	The people round began to gape.
0	Or a man is called selfish if he lives in the manner that seems to him most suitable for the full realisation of his own personality; if, in fact, the primary aim of his life is self-development.
0	Perhaps if God had sent us children she might have been kinder to me.
0	As he left the room, Lord Henry's heavy eyelids drooped, and he began to think.
0	I have some work to do."
0	I suspected that, my dear fellow!
0	Surely each art has its separate technique?
0	“He is too selfish,” she said.
0	Leaf after leaf of the fine gold he brought to the poor, and the children’s faces grew rosier, and they laughed and played games in the street.
0	Of course, I have had so few advantages.
0	I should fancy, however, that murder is always a mistake.
0	I know that you will do this thing.
0	Why should you scourge him with rods for a sin done in his youth, before he knew you, before he knew himself?
0	All men are married women’s property.
0	if you find charms in me, Mrs. Erlynne— [_They converse together_.
0	If you would allow your nephew to look after Lady Stutfield’s cloak, you might help me with my workbasket.
0	“And how do you like the Water-rat?” asked the Duck, who came paddling up some minutes afterwards.
0	I ask merely for information.
0	As for that great and daily increasing school of novelists for whom the sun always rises in the East-End, the only thing that can be said about them is that they find life crude, and leave it raw.
0	But what is there behind the leading-article but prejudice, stupidity, cant, and twaddle?
0	Lord Darlington, will you give me back my fan, please?
0	Yes, you've wonderfully good taste, Ernest.
0	Yes, but it usually chronicles the things that have never happened, and couldn't possibly have happened.
0	It is so loud that one can talk the whole time without other people hearing what one says.
0	You know it, you feel it.
0	You must come and see my doctor, when we get back to town."
0	Perhaps the signs of evil had already gone away.
0	And when he touched her, she gave a cry like a startled sea-gull, and woke, and looked at him in terror with her mauve-amethyst eyes, and struggled that she might escape.
0	It really makes no matter, Algernon.
0	Expression is as necessary to me as leaf and blossoms are to the black branches of the trees that show themselves above the prison walls and are so restless in the wind.
0	Do you, in England, allow no friendship to exist between a young man and a young girl?
0	My dear fellow, there is nothing improbable about my explanation at all.
0	It is a seaside resort.
0	Dorian turned his back on them and said something in a low voice to Adrian Singleton.
0	People will some day, however.
0	It is a gentleman, isn't it, who is in love with her, or says he is?
0	It is only the intellectually lost who ever argue.
0	It was about a quarter-past two o'clock in the morning, and, as far as he could ascertain, no one was stirring.
0	Just lean it against the wall.
0	“A swallow in winter!”  And he wrote a long letter about it to the local newspaper.
0	"Can you remember any great error that you committed in your early days, Duchess?"
0	He had just turned round to say something when the door opened and Sibyl ran in.
0	"Are you better, my dear fellow?"
0	It has been said that the great events of the world take place in the brain.
0	"I don't agree with a single word that you have said, and, what is more, Harry, I feel sure you don't either."
0	Do come to us more often.
0	He would not think any more of what she had made him go through, on that horrible night at the theatre.
0	They matter a great deal.
0	What is the number of your sister's box?"
0	He was quite unable to discover the inhabitants, as his delightful exhibition at Messrs. Dowdeswell’s Gallery showed only too well.
0	"No, I won't send it anywhere."
0	I love scandals about other people, but scandals about myself don't interest me.
0	The horses of Mr. William Black’s phaeton do not soar towards the sun.
0	The jewels are clearly hers, and, egad, I believe that if I were heartless enough to take them from her, the wicked old fellow would be out of his grave in a fortnight, leading me the devil of a life.
0	Finally his bell sounded, and Victor came in softly with a cup of tea, and a pile of letters, on a small tray of old Sevres china, and drew back the olive-satin curtains, with their shimmering blue lining, that hung in front of the three tall windows.
0	So he was here as my guest, as it were, and for that reason I made him my captain.
0	And now I'll have a cup of tea, and one of those nice cucumber sandwiches you promised me.
0	At last he reached the Home Farm.
0	There were opium dens where one could buy oblivion, dens of horror where the memory of old sins could be destroyed by the madness of sins that were new.
0	And what is Ferrol like?
0	It is always painful to part from people whom one has known for a very brief space of time.
0	There is certainly no chance of your marrying Miss Cardew.
0	Suddenly he remarked that every face that he drew seemed to have a fantastic likeness to Basil Hallward.
0	“Why is he weeping?” asked a little Green Lizard, as he ran past him with his tail in the air.
0	‘Ay,’ answered the man, ‘and the name of the rich brother is Cain.’ And the young King’s eyes filled with tears, and he rode on through the murmurs of the people, and the little page grew afraid and left him.
0	Hour after hour he waited, but the cock, for some strange reason, did not crow again.
0	We never understand what he says, Princess.
0	The Priest telleth me that the soul is worth all the gold in the world, and the merchants say that it is not worth a clipped piece of silver.’ And he passed out of the market-place, and went down to the shore of the sea, and began to ponder on what he should do.
0	It is horribly hot in the studio.
0	I wish Lord Illingworth would ask me to be his secretary.
0	I remember him, Lady Hunstanton.
0	He was unconscious of the silence.
0	It was merely the sound of his own footsteps.
0	"I am awfully sorry that I have made you waste an evening, Harry.
0	Of course there are many things of which I was convicted that I had not done, but then there are many things of which I was convicted that I had done, and a still greater number of things in my life for which I was never indicted at all.
0	He was one of the first to develop what has been called the art-literature of the nineteenth century, that form of literature which has found in Mr. Ruskin and Mr. Browning, its two most perfect exponents.
0	“What a curious shape you are!
0	My duty as a gentleman has never interfered with my pleasures in the smallest degree.
0	I have been discovering all kinds of beautiful qualities in my own nature.
0	When it is used with a certain amount of kindness, and accompanied by prizes and rewards, it is dreadfully demoralising.
0	His eyes deepened into amethyst, and across them came a mist of tears.
0	"Something of a load to carry, sir," gasped the little man when they reached the top landing.
0	On the 12th of December, he and his wife and child came up to London from Linden House, and took lodgings at No.
0	‘Where is this King who is apparelled like a beggar—this boy who brings shame upon our state?
0	Lady Hunstanton is most kind in asking him here, and Lord Illingworth seems to have taken quite a fancy to him.
0	Yes, she was certainly lovely to look at--one of the loveliest creatures, Lord Henry thought, that he had ever seen.
0	It is indeed, Lady Caroline.
0	There were no cucumbers in the market this morning, sir.
0	"Not at all," answered Lord Henry, "not at all, my dear Basil.
0	After a time, however, the brave old Canterville spirit asserted itself, and he determined to go and speak to the other ghost as soon as it was daylight.
0	Tell me how I can send my soul away from me, for in truth I have no need of it.
0	That accounts for the fact that we all take such pains to over-educate ourselves.
0	They are not nearly so exclusive in London as they are in Sydney.
0	It is a great truth.
0	He should refuse all our serious requests, and gratify every one of our whims.
0	But Hallward had seen him.
0	All that the public are allowed to know is that the divorce has taken place and was granted on petition of one or other or both of the married parties concerned.
0	But the Oak-tree understood, and felt sad, for he was very fond of the little Nightingale who had built her nest in his branches.
0	"I must go, Basil," he answered.
0	As one turns over the pages, the suspense of the author becomes almost unbearable.
0	For heaven's sake, don't try to be cynical.
0	You see I have got Mrs. Arbuthnot to come to me at last.
0	You must not look at her.
0	And it is time that a stop should be put to the idea, very prevalent on the stage, that the Greeks and Romans always went about bareheaded in the open air—a mistake the Elizabethan managers did not fall into, for they gave hoods as well as gowns to their Roman senators.
0	Yes; my wife is as perfect as all that.
0	"I am afraid that your nephew is prejudiced against that great country," he said to Lady Agatha.
0	Lord Goring, you are talking quite seriously.
0	But why should I not look?
0	He must have died almost instantaneously.
0	Out of a horn of fire Odysseus speaks to us, and when from his sepulchre of flame the great Ghibelline rises, the pride that triumphs over the torture of that bed becomes ours for a moment.
0	Music had troubled him many times.
0	About Bimetallism, as well as I remember.
0	Perhaps I may go out with something that I had not got before.
0	In his view of life he is one with the artist who knows that by the inevitable law of self-perfection, the poet must sing, and the sculptor think in bronze, and the painter make the world a mirror for his moods, as surely and as certainly as the hawthorn must blossom in spring, and the corn turn to gold at harvest- time, and the moon in her ordered wanderings change from shield to sickle, and from sickle to shield.
0	It was a great work, but it is almost over.
0	The whole production showed once for all that, unless a dress is archæologically correct, and artistically appropriate, it always looks unreal, unnatural, and theatrical in the sense of artificial.
0	It is very difficult to understand women, is it not?
0	LORD WINDERMERE _looks at her in contempt_.
0	It is bitter in Baudelaire, sweet and plaintive in Lamartine, mystic in Verlaine.
0	Suddenly, with a cry so shrill that all the children were startled and Don Pedro’s hand clutched at the agate pommel of his dagger, they leapt to their feet and whirled madly round the enclosure beating their tambourines, and chaunting some wild love-song in their strange guttural language.
0	You were Lord Radley’s secretary, weren’t you, when the Government bought the Suez Canal shares?
0	And the weaver looked at him angrily, and said, ‘Why art thou watching me?
0	I have a right to share in sorrow, and he who can look at the loveliness of the world and share its sorrow, and realise something of the wonder of both, is in immediate contact with divine things, and has got as near to God's secret as any one can get.
0	But it is worth while my wiring to Vienna, is it not?
0	With the decorative arts it is not different.
0	But if I told you— SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.
0	There was an ugly story about it.
0	* * * * *                                 * * * * * Lord Windermere Lord Darlington Lord Augustus Lorton Mr. Dumby Mr. Cecil Graham Mr. Hopper Parker, Butler                                 * * * * * Lady Windermere The Duchess of Berwick Lady Agatha Carlisle Lady Plymdale Lady Stutfield Lady Jedburgh Mrs. Cowper-Cowper Mrs. Erlynne Rosalie, Maid ACT I.
0	It was an exquisite day.
0	You were worth more, Robert.
0	It can do for us what History cannot do.
0	Piccadilly lies at our feet like a long riband of silver.
0	I need hardly say that I am not, for a single moment, complaining that the public and the public press misuse these words.
0	With the novel it is the same thing.
0	They always want one to be perfectly dumb at the very moment when one is longing to be absolutely deaf.
0	Jane, have you seen John anywhere?
0	Thank you, Lady Bracknell, I prefer standing.
0	He repeated her name over and over again.
0	Let us leave these wicked people, and proceed to the discussion of the artistic qualifications necessary for the true critic.
0	They were better off than he was.
0	They will not say ‘We will not war against France because her prose is perfect,’ but because the prose of France is perfect, they will not hate the land.
0	It was reckless of me, but I asked Lady Brandon to introduce me to him.
0	When one returns to the Greek; it is like going into a garden of lilies out of some, narrow and dark house.
0	These are very evil omens, and there were others.
0	"My dear Dorian, I should think Miss Vane was ill," interrupted Hallward.
0	1), Herod Antipas (_Mat._ xiv.
0	Three nights I have been on the mountains seeking them everywhere.
0	He carries a salver, table cloth, and plate stand.
0	The final blow he received occurred on the 19th of September.
0	And Lord Henry struck a light on a dainty silver case and began to smoke a cigarette with a self-conscious and satisfied air, as if he had summed up the world in a phrase.
0	I did not say that.
0	I can't understand how you are here at all.
0	A week later Dorian Gray was sitting in the conservatory at Selby Royal, talking to the pretty Duchess of Monmouth, who with her husband, a jaded-looking man of sixty, was amongst his guests.
0	We must surrender ourselves absolutely to the work in question, whatever it may be, if we wish to gain its secret.
0	You had better not come down to dinner.
0	[Picture: The Selfish Giant] EVERY afternoon, as they were coming from school, the children used to go and play in the Giant’s garden.
0	Besides, you know, mother, I love Hester Worsley.
0	And yet I see you very seldom, and you never come down to the studio now, and when I am away from you, and I hear all these hideous things that people are whispering about you, I don't know what to say.
0	It is a new experience for us."
0	[Languidly_._]  I don't know that I am much interested in your family life, Lane.
0	You are more to me than all art can ever be.
0	He could not play about any more, so he sat in a huge armchair, and watched the children at their games, and admired his garden.
0	A laugh ran round the table.
0	Oh!—we all want friends at times.
0	"I am sorry if I have pained you by asking about my father," he said, "but I could not help it.
0	And there is a draught in your room, besides, which makes your conduct worse.
0	These are the sickly aims, the false ideals, of our age.
0	In the third place, I know perfectly well whom she will place me next to, to-night.
0	Good God, Dorian, is that what you have come to?
0	A sort of brother, I suppose?"
0	It was delightful to watch him.
0	A man who does not think for himself does not think at all.
0	"You have a new friend, I hear.
0	I am a born antinomian.
0	It had changed in answer to a prayer; perhaps in answer to a prayer it might remain unchanged.
0	"My dear fellow, she tried to found a _salon_, and only succeeded in opening a restaurant.
0	She was very young, and—and ignorant of what life really is.
0	We stood in the market-place, and the negroes uncorded the bales of figured cloths and opened the carved chests of sycamore.
0	No; He is not there.
0	People are amused by it, or disgusted by it, according to their temperaments.
0	Do not ask me, Mr. Worthing.
0	All I have with me is in this bag, and I can easily get to Victoria in twenty minutes."
0	And that member of Parliament, Mr. Kettle— SIR JOHN.
0	The present is of no importance.
0	Would you prefer one of those?
0	His hair is dark as the hyacinth-blossom, and his lips are red as the rose of his desire; but passion has made his face like pale ivory, and sorrow has set her seal upon his brow.” “The Prince gives a ball to-morrow night,” murmured the young Student, “and my love will be of the company.
0	One which is brought from the Island of Samothrace, and is purple like the cloak of Cæsar.
0	It isn't Ernest; it's Jack.
0	As one reads history, not in the expurgated editions written for school-boys and passmen, but in the original authorities of each time, one is absolutely sickened, not by the crimes that the wicked have committed, but by the punishments that the good have inflicted; and a community is infinitely more brutalised by the habitual employment of punishment, than it is by the occurrence of crime.
0	Considered as an instrument of thought, the English mind is coarse and undeveloped.
0	Your mysterious young friend, whose name you have never told me, but whose picture really fascinates me, never thinks.
0	But I think you should try.
0	I have no doubt about that, dear Algy.
0	Why should she hesitate between her ruin and mine?
0	I will kiss thy mouth.
0	If a woman wants to hold a man, she has merely to appeal to what is worst in him.
0	However, proceed with your article.
0	Why should the artist be troubled by the shrill clamour of criticism?
0	At all costs one must have wealth.
0	Who are those wild beasts howling?
0	"I know what pleasure is," cried Dorian Gray.
0	I could not help going round.
0	After the unfortunate accident to the Duchess, none of our younger servants would stay with us, and Lady Canterville often got very little sleep at night, in consequence of the mysterious noises that came from the corridor and the library."
0	This being the least valuable side of his work, is the one that has had the most obvious influence.
0	It is only fair to tell you beforehand he has got no conversation at all.
0	_When_ LORD GORING _returns the glass she refuses it with a gesture_.]
0	They like to find us quite irretrievably bad, and to leave us quite unattractively good.
0	‘“The god is hunting,” said the priest, looking strangely at me with his small slanting eyes.
0	"No," said Dorian Gray, "there is nothing fearful about it.
0	She had atoned for everything by the sacrifice she had made of her life.
0	[Gwendolen goes to the door.
0	And the young Fisherman gave him thanks, and kissed the ring that was on his hand, and flung himself down on the carpets of dyed goat’s-hair.
0	It has had that excellent effect, amongst others.
0	One feels your mother’s good influence in everything she has about her, Gerald.
0	It is impossible for the artist to live with the People.
0	I ceased to be lord over myself.
0	It was a lovely scene, only in one corner it was still winter.
0	No: marriage is a sacrament for those who love each other.
0	He was seated at the piano, with his back to them, turning over the pages of a volume of Schumann's "Forest Scenes."
0	When it does this it stultifies itself.
0	But she finds great pleasure in such retrospections, great pleasure.
0	They are always vulgar, and often convincing.
0	It is more precious than emeralds, and dearer than fine opals.
0	You won't send me back, will you?
0	In America the President reigns for four years, and Journalism governs for ever and ever.
0	You have just left the feast, Princess?
0	Can't you see what I am going through?
0	Memory in a woman is the beginning of dowdiness.
0	[ _Pulls out watch and looks at it_.]
0	"I am sick of women who love one.
0	The task is not a pleasant one.
0	I knew that I had come face to face with some one whose mere personality was so fascinating that, if I allowed it to do so, it would absorb my whole nature, my whole soul, my very art itself.
0	‘And we tarried for a moon, and when the moon was waning, I wearied and wandered away through the streets of the city and came to the garden of its god.
0	The tall striped tulips stood straight up upon their stalks, like long rows of soldiers, and looked defiantly across the grass at the roses, and said: ‘We are quite as splendid as you are now.’ The purple butterflies fluttered about with gold dust on their wings, visiting each flower in turn; the little lizards crept out of the crevices of the wall, and lay basking in the white glare; and the pomegranates split and cracked with the heat, and showed their bleeding red hearts.
0	I remember picking up a little vellum-covered book in your studio one day and chancing on that delightful phrase.
0	"I am afraid you are far from well," she said, "and have brought you a bottle of Doctor Dobell's tincture.
0	then, you never really love, Mr. Gray," answered the duchess with mock sadness.
0	He is always telling us that to be good is to be good, and that to be bad is to be wicked.
0	Yes; men persecute us dreadfully, don’t they?
0	I assure you that it is an education to visit it."
0	And the Humane Society is most careless.
0	There are exquisite things in store for you.
0	It springs from an entire ignorance of psychology.
0	But the artistic temperament that they create, or at any rate reveal, is still more to me.
0	I will kiss thy mouth, Jokanaan.
0	After playing Chopin, I feel as if I had been weeping over sins that I had never committed, and mourning over tragedies that were not my own.
0	Yes, I am quite well aware of the fact.
0	[_Goes over to_ LORD ILLINGWORTH.]
0	To be born, or at any rate bred, in a hand-bag, whether it had handles or not, seems to me to display a contempt for the ordinary decencies of family life that reminds one of the worst excesses of the French Revolution.
0	[_Moves towards sofa with_ MRS. ERLYNNE _and sits down beside her_.]
0	I shall go through Debrett carefully to-night and draw out a list of all the eligible young ladies."
0	MRS. ARBUTHNOT _is standing close to the table_.
0	"A blush is very becoming, Duchess," remarked Lord Henry.
0	At the end of everything Mrs. Cheveley got possession of your letter—she stole it, when or how, I don’t know.
0	Sometimes a Bishop rode through on his white mule, reading out of a painted book.
0	Don’t let us talk of it.
0	At eleven o'clock the family retired, and by half-past all the lights were out.
0	As far as psychology is concerned, it has never been morbid enough.
0	I should like to see her.
0	He sent him to bed, and threw himself down on the sofa in the library, and began to think over some of the things that Lord Henry had said to him.
0	_A work of art_, _on the whole_, _but showing the influence of too many schools_.]
0	How nice of you to like me so much after we have known each other such a comparatively short time.
0	"Dorian," said Lord Henry, "I had better tell them that the shooting is stopped for to-day.
0	Quite well, thank you, Mrs. Erlynne.
0	[_They rise and proceed to go off_.
0	Compared to it there was nothing else of any value.
0	“That is the important thing.” “Very important for you, I have no doubt,” answered the Rocket, “but I shall weep if I choose”; and he actually burst into real tears, which flowed down his stick like rain-drops, and nearly drowned two little beetles, who were just thinking of setting up house together, and were looking for a nice dry spot to live in.
0	Then Miss Prism is a short-sighted old lady.
0	The sky is a hard hollow sapphire.
0	[Algernon looks appealingly at Cecily.]
0	Let us go back to the more gracious fields of literature.
0	I have given up my intention of being Lord Illingworth’s secretary.
0	When I was in the Diplomatic, things were much better.
0	I am sure you are far too clever to have done that.
0	I may mention that she was not the woman's only child.
0	It would put my table completely out.
0	We loved each other very much.
0	I have seen too many.
0	I don't know whether it is so or not.
0	The quivering ardent sunlight showed him the lines of cruelty round the mouth as clearly as if he had been looking into a mirror after he had done some dreadful thing.
0	He was very much annoyed that he could not get a word in.
0	Yes, that is always very, very pleasant to hear about other women.
0	Then he threw the knife on the table, and listened.
0	I am afraid I am not fond of girl friends.
0	It is the sort of love I have for Gerald.
0	And thunderingly well they do it.
0	I have invented an invaluable permanent invalid called Bunbury, in order that I may be able to go down into the country whenever I choose.
0	"You know you believe it all," said Lord Henry, looking at him with his dreamy languorous eyes.
0	His mouth twitched, and his parched tongue seemed unable to articulate.
0	Is there poison in that which is sweet to drink?
0	Lord Goring, I think your father’s conversation much more improving than yours.
0	A rather pathetic reference to this occasion occurs in a letter Wilde wrote to me from Reading:-- "Please say how gratified I was at the performance of my play, and have my thanks conveyed to Luigne Poë.
0	From her little head to her little feet, she is absolutely and entirely divine.
0	You should never try to understand them.
0	LADY CHILTERN _rushes towards him_, _but the door is closed when she reaches it_.
0	You opened a letter of mine to my husband?
0	It’s nearly twenty minutes since I saw her last.
0	It seems to me that we all look at Nature too much, and live with her too little.
0	Now that I have made it, something seems to have gone out of me.
0	Even before I met you I was far from indifferent to you.
0	Lord Illingworth’s mother, dear Mrs. Arbuthnot, was one of the Duchess of Jerningham’s pretty daughters, and she married Sir Thomas Harford, who wasn’t considered a very good match for her at the time, though he was said to be the handsomest man in London.
0	You said that you would give me back my letter, didn’t you?
0	There is nothing that art cannot express, and I know that the work I have done, since I met Dorian Gray, is good work, is the best work of my life.
0	There was no doubt about it.
0	Why don’t you take him for your model?
0	talk to every woman as if you loved her, and to every man as if he bored you, and at the end of your first season you will have the reputation of possessing the most perfect social tact.
0	I will see Miss Fairfax out.
0	He prophesied that the moon would become red as blood.
0	So pleased to have seen you.
0	"You insist on knowing, Basil?"
0	the truth is a thing I get rid of as soon as possible!
0	‘And I said to the priest, “Is this the god?” ‘And he answered me, “This is the god.” ‘“Show me the god,” I cried, “or I will surely slay thee.”  And I touched his eyes, and they became blind.
0	But no man should have a secret from his own wife.
0	My son feels my dishonour strongly, terribly strongly.
0	What was your reason for refusing to exhibit my picture?"
0	Is it worth while, father?
0	[_Takes the letter_, _examines it_, _sighs_, _and burns it with the lamp_.]
0	You have never let the world soil you.
0	It would kill this monstrous soul-life, and without its hideous warnings, he would be at peace.
0	That is always a dreadful moment.
0	Its value depends entirely on how it is used, and only an artist can use it.
0	I will not look at it--away with it!
0	“Bring me the two most precious things in the city,” said God to one of His Angels; and the Angel brought Him the leaden heart and the dead bird.
0	But at the present moment it really is the only estate.
0	When she knew its unreality, she died, as Juliet might have died.
0	I am sure that he is the prophet Elias.
0	When you were away from me, you were still present in my art.... Of course, I never let you know anything about this.
0	I think it has immensely improved.
0	It was a swindle, Sir Robert.
0	The subject seems distasteful to most men.
0	If you judge from the art, they certainly were so.
0	I intend to take a studio in Paris and shut myself up till I have finished a great picture I have in my head.
0	This is the panacea that is always being recommended to us.
0	Mr. Lewis Wingfield’s explanation that the sumptuary laws of the period necessitated their doing so, is, I am afraid, hardly sufficient.
0	To know the principles of the highest art is to know the principles of all the arts.
0	Even now that you are bitter to me I cannot repent.
0	_The Terrace at Hunstanton Chase_.
0	These delightful records should have been my constant study.
0	But where am I to turn?
0	There is no time to be lost.
0	You are here on a short visit, I suppose.
0	Flee away to a place of safety.
0	You are the one man who is able to save me.
0	I don’t mind bad husbands.
0	In one corner, with his head buried in his arms, a sailor sprawled over a table, and by the tawdrily painted bar that ran across one complete side stood two haggard women, mocking an old man who was brushing the sleeves of his coat with an expression of disgust.
0	[_To herself_]  How thoughtful of him!
0	We shall somewhere find green valleys and fresh waters, and if we weep, well, we shall weep together.
0	Perhaps she was hiding behind that?
0	The lad was actually pallid with rage.
0	The counsel for the Bank having explained that there were three other     indictments, but that the Bank did not desire to shed blood, the plea     of guilty on the two minor charges was recorded, and the prisoner at     the close of the session sentenced by the Recorder to transportation     for life.
0	At least, some of them are.
0	But she would neither eat nor drink, but said to the Woodcutter, ‘Didst thou not say that the child was found in the forest?
0	They blew their tasselled horns and with their tiny hands waved to her to go back.
0	Ah, I am so sorry Mrs. Daubeny could not come with you to-night.
0	In the centre of the room, clamped to an upright easel, stood the full-length portrait of a young man of extraordinary personal beauty, and in front of it, some little distance away, was sitting the artist himself, Basil Hallward, whose sudden disappearance some years ago caused, at the time, such public excitement and gave rise to so many strange conjectures.
0	The Philistine element in life is not the failure to understand art.
0	There's such a lot of beastly competition about.
0	When they entered, they found hanging upon the wall a splendid portrait of their master as they had last seen him, in all the wonder of his exquisite youth and beauty.
0	It was the month of June, and he was staying at one of the hotels in Covent Garden.
0	Gerard, after my dear father.
0	This he had on more than one occasion found extremely useful.
0	"I don't know that I shall tell you that, Mr. Gray.
0	I hope she is better?
0	I think, dear Doctor, I will have a stroll with you.
0	An idea that is not dangerous is unworthy of being called an idea at all.
0	asked Lord Henry, helping himself to some salad.
0	LORD AUGUSTUS _takes_ WINDERMERE _by the arm and brings him to front of stage_.
0	Where he went to he hardly knew.
0	He drew the screen back into its former place in front of the picture, smiling as he did so, and passed into his bedroom, where his valet was already waiting for him.
0	Who knows what the virtues are?
0	They would have been most interesting.
0	It is a silly habit, I dare say, but somehow it seems to bring a great deal of romance into one's life.
0	The simplicity of your character makes you exquisitely incomprehensible to me.
0	He has been awfully good to me, mother.
0	But youth is the Lord of Life.
0	But I pray you, Salomé, ask of me something else.
0	I wonder Mrs. Cardew allows him.
0	[LADY WINDERMERE _throws off her cloak and flings it on the sofa_.]
0	Poor dreadful Mr. Isaacs will be shouting 'genius' to his loafers at the bar.
0	Miss Fairfax, ever since I met you I have admired you more than any girl .
0	Bad habit, by the way.
0	Had it hit the mark?
0	I have given too many to care about them.
0	[_A moonbeam falls on Salomé covering her with light._] [_Turning round and seeing Salomé_.]
0	"I believe he is in love," cried Lady Narborough, "and that he is afraid to tell me for fear I should be jealous.
0	There is nothing like youth.
0	It is very kind of you, Duchess, to come and tell me all this.
0	When they make up their ledger, they balance stupidity by wealth, and vice by hypocrisy."
0	For it will not worry itself about the past, nor care whether things happened or did not happen.
0	No man can gainsay it.
0	But were things different: had I not a friend left in the world; were there not a single house open to me in pity; had I to accept the wallet and ragged cloak of sheer penury: as long as I am free from all resentment, hardness and scorn, I would be able to face the life with much more calm and confidence than I would were my body in purple and fine linen, and the soul within me sick with hate.
0	But I really am so sorry for you, Margaret.
0	I begin to be afraid.
0	That was the old system, and wonderfully interesting it was.
0	There is a fatality about all physical and intellectual distinction, the sort of fatality that seems to dog through history the faltering steps of kings.
0	Panel and marble and linen canvas became wonderful as his brush swept across them; and life seeing her own image, was still, and dared not speak.
0	"All I want now is to look at life.
0	Algy, you young scoundrel, you will have to treat me with more respect in the future.
0	"You pain me, my son.
0	She, corrupt and shameful—you, false as a friend, treacherous as an enemy even— LORD GORING.
0	I have often observed that the Season as it goes on produces a kind of softening of the brain.
0	I assure you, Dorian, that not one of the women I have known would have done for me what Sibyl Vane did for you.
0	The trees seemed to sweep past him in spectral procession, and wild shadows to fling themselves across his path.
0	You know that you will do this thing for me.
0	and he went straight up into the air.
0	So I come here to try to find one.
0	In front of their booths sit the merchants on silken carpets.
0	He is making for you a terrible sacrifice.
0	You married a man with a future, didn’t you?
0	Some strange mad fascination brought him back.
0	Christ found the type and fixed it, and the dream of a Virgilian poet, either at Jerusalem or at Babylon, became in the long progress of the centuries incarnate in him for whom the world was waiting.
0	What a mess I am in.
0	"My dear Basil," said Dorian, "what have you told me?
0	You know more than you think you know, just as you know less than you want to know."
0	You don't inquire where the dead things on which you experiment come from.
0	[_Shakes hands with_ MABEL CHILTERN, _takes up his hat and stick_, _and goes out_, _with a parting glare of indignation at_ LORD GORING.]
0	‘The young Emperor was stretched on a couch of dyed lion skins, and a gerfalcon perched upon his wrist.
0	I am so sorry I have been out the last three times you have called.
0	To every character in the play was given a perfectly appropriate attire, and the brown and green of their costumes harmonised exquisitely with the ferns through which they wandered, the trees beneath which they lay, and the lovely English landscape that surrounded the Pastoral Players.
0	And as through the fulness of his love his heart did break, the Soul found an entrance and entered in, and was one with him even as before.
0	Well, at least, the critic will be sincere.
0	Make your peace with God, for to-night you are going to die."
0	I shall not inform upon you.
0	He made no answer, but sat down to his meagre meal.
0	Never mind what I say, Robert!
0	I wonder you consent to have anything to say to me.
0	It was not till much later that he sought to find expression by pen or poison.
0	The more one analyses people, the more all reasons for analysis disappear.
0	Did you tell him Mr. Worthing was in town?
0	Without your art, you are nothing.
0	[_In her most dreamy manner_.]
0	Your brother is a little off colour, isn't he, dear Jack?
0	The very violence of a revolution may make the public grand and splendid for a moment.
0	"Mother, Mother," she cried, "why does he love me so much?
0	Oh, she goes about very little.
0	His lordship will come to you there.
0	Then she brushed her hair back from her forehead, and smiling strangely she said to him, ‘What men call the shadow of the body is not the shadow of the body, but is the body of the soul.
0	The only portraits in which one believes are portraits where there is very little of the sitter, and a very great deal of the artist.
0	A man who can dominate a London dinner-table can dominate the world.
0	Was he always to be burdened by his past?
0	[_Keeping his eyes steadily fixed on the carpet_.]
0	Isn't there a verse somewhere, 'Though your sins be as scarlet, yet I will make them as white as snow'?"
0	I hope there is a good chef at the Embassy.
0	_Their affectation of manner has a delicate charm_.
0	That is because I am hungry.
0	The mere lines looked to him like those straight lines of turquoise-blue that follow one as one pushes out to the Lido.
0	ahem!” he said, and everybody listened except the poor Catherine Wheel, who was still shaking her head, and murmuring, “Romance is dead.” “Order!
0	We have married perfect husbands, and we are well punished for it.
0	The door opened quietly, and he went in without saying a word to the squat misshapen figure that flattened itself into the shadow as he passed.
0	I must go round now and rehearse at Lady Basildon’s.
0	What this woman asked of me was nothing compared to what she offered to me.
0	There was some scandal about it.
0	It is strange that the husband of my mother looks at me like that.
0	I have known many instances of it.
0	It was twenty minutes to twelve.
0	It is not fit for you to see, sir.
0	[LORD ILLINGWORTH _enters at back of stage_.
0	Not one pulse of his life would ever weaken.
0	For the rest of the week, however, they were undisturbed, the only thing that excited any attention being the continual renewal of the blood-stain on the library floor.
0	[MRS. ERLYNNE _smiles_, _and continues conversation_.]
0	When men give up saying what is charming, they give up thinking what is charming.
0	None of us are perfect.
0	“‘Well, really,’ answered the Miller, ‘I do not think it is much to ask of you, considering that I am going to give you my wheelbarrow; but of course if you refuse I will go and do it myself.’ “‘Oh!
0	By giving us the opinions of the uneducated, it keeps us in touch with the ignorance of the community.
0	My dear Ernest, even if not a single fragment of art-criticism had come down to us from Hellenic or Hellenistic days, it would be none the less true that the Greeks were a nation of art-critics, and that they invented the criticism of art just as they invented the criticism of everything else.
0	And Avarice shuddered, and put ashes on her head.
0	In many points you are unjust.
0	It is he who has broken the bond of marriage—not I.  I only break its bondage.
0	There was something about him, Harry, that amused me.
0	Her teeth showed like white seeds in a scarlet fruit.
0	"Yes, there is a gas-fire with asbestos."
0	About half-past eight I passed by an absurd little theatre, with great flaring gas-jets and gaudy play-bills.
0	It is only sick people who dream.
0	By-the-by, Gerald, I hope your dear mother will come and see me more often now.
0	He jumped at it, I need hardly say.
0	At vintage-time came the grape-treaders, with purple hands and feet, wreathed with glossy ivy and carrying dripping skins of wine; and the charcoal-burners sat round their huge braziers at night, watching the dry logs charring slowly in the fire, and roasting chestnuts in the ashes, and the robbers came out of their caves and made merry with them.
0	Those who find beautiful meanings in beautiful things are the cultivated.
0	I myself am peculiarly susceptible to draughts.
0	Don’t realise, I mean, that a son has ambitions, a desire to see life, to make himself a name.
0	‘Nor will he be welcomed by society alone.
0	Or was the body really in the soul, as Giordano Bruno thought?
0	Now, do you really imagine that the Japanese people, as they are presented to us in art, have any existence?
0	And Chiltern’s been wise enough to accept the seat in the Cabinet.
0	She will be your constant guest—your dearest friend.
0	But you must think of that lonely death in the tawdry dressing-room simply as a strange lurid fragment from some Jacobean tragedy, as a wonderful scene from Webster, or Ford, or Cyril Tourneur.
0	When people agree with me I always feel that I must be wrong.
0	In a note to the _Life of Dickens_, Forster mentions that in 1847 Lady Blessington received from her brother, Major Power, who held a military appointment at Hobart Town, an oil portrait of a young lady from his clever brush; and it is said that ‘he had contrived to put the expression of his own wickedness into the portrait of a nice, kind-hearted girl.’  M. Zola, in one of his novels, tells us of a young man who, having committed a murder, takes to art, and paints greenish impressionist portraits of perfectly respectable people, all of which bear a curious resemblance to his victim.
0	Unable to understand this curious transformation, he clutched the placard with feverish haste, and there, in the grey morning light, he read these fearful words:--         | Ye Onlie True and Originale Spook, |         |    Beware of Ye Imitationes.
0	Just as vulgarity is simply the conduct of other people.
0	As they entered they saw Dorian Gray.
0	They are simply cheques that men draw on a bank where they have no account."
0	Will not that be something?
0	Through this he darted, and came into the room.
0	I amused myself with being a _flaneur_, a dandy, a man of fashion.
0	They gave a strong personality to his style, a quality that his early work certainly lacked.
0	They either slay the man, or themselves die.
0	It was a lovely July evening, and the air was delicate with the scent of the pinewoods.
0	It is strange that the young Syrian has killed himself.
0	She is a vile, an infamous thing!
0	We’d treat you with more respect, wouldn’t we, Tuppy?
0	It lies like a leper in purple.
0	But this murder--was it to dog him all his life?
0	Will the interment take place here?
0	I do not heed my mother.
0	Let us go out into the night.
0	Or if that phrase seems to be a bitter one to bear, let us say that every one is worthy of love, except him who thinks that he is.
0	If you want to mar a nature, you have merely to reform it.
0	There is not one woman in the world to whom I could go for pity, if I would take it, or for sympathy, if I could win it.
0	A great poet sings because he chooses to sing.
0	I acknowledge it, and I feel a little sorry for them.
0	That is quite right, dear.
0	It makes me talk in my sleep.
0	What martyrs we are, dear Margaret!
0	Good-bye, Mother; I will have my dinner at five o'clock.
0	She was extremely annoyed at the tone he had adopted with her, and there was something in his look that had made her feel afraid.
0	Besides, I have a perfect right to be christened if I like.
0	No one accepted the authority of public opinion.
0	The extraordinary change that has taken place in the climate of London during the last ten years is entirely due to a particular school of Art.
0	If you do, I will make my name so infamous that it will mar every moment of her life.
0	Do you think it fair that a man’s whole career should be ruined for a fault done in one’s boyhood almost?
0	He glanced quickly round and rose to his feet.
0	And just answer me one question.
0	I am forced to bring you into the matter.
0	They can recognise their worshippers.
0	Before my son was born, I implored you to marry me.
0	Upon the other hand, he was not a doctrinaire.
0	How different it was with material things!
0	"Dorian engaged to be married!"
0	There was blood on the painted feet, as though the thing had dripped--blood even on the hand that had not held the knife.
0	No; there was no further change in the picture.
0	Only go back to your husband, and I promise you never to communicate with him again on any pretext—never to see him—never to have anything to do with his life or yours.
0	Where did the charitable gentleman who had a first-class ticket for this seaside resort find you?
0	Upon ivory and rose-coloured terracotta he painted with wax, making the wax fluid with juice of olives, and with heated irons making it firm.
0	I have noticed a very, very sad expression in the eyes of so many married men.
0	You don't want people to talk of you as something vile and degraded.
0	A Greek might have used the latter phrase.
0	They are commonplace, sordid and tedious.
0	He was trembling all over.
0	"Yes, that is his name.
0	You must not look at her.
0	You never mean a single word you say.
0	The first is, of course, intensely fascinating, for I see in Christ not merely the essentials of the supreme romantic type, but all the accidents, the wilfulnesses even, of the romantic temperament also.
0	[_After a moment’s hesitation and embarrassment_.]
0	It is a wound that bleeds when any hand but that of love touches it, and even then must bleed again, though not in pain.
0	What the invention of oil-painting was to the Venetians, the face of Antinous was to late Greek sculpture, and the face of Dorian Gray will some day be to me.
0	In a second he heard the click of a revolver, and saw the gleam of a polished barrel, pointing straight at his head, and the dusky form of a short, thick-set man facing him.
0	That is the war every child of light has to wage.
0	Their tails when they spread them to the sun are like disks of ivory and like gilt disks.
0	His brows knit together into a wedge-like furrow, and with a twitch of pain he bit his underlip.
0	The beatific vision is granted to us; we know the Love that moves the sun and all the stars.
0	But such as thy price is thou shalt have it, for it is but a little thing.’  And he doffed his cap to her, and bent his head low, and ran back to the town filled with a great joy.
0	I should be sorry to have to quarrel with you, Lord Darlington.
0	He remembered the autumn that he had passed there, and a wonderful love that had stirred him to mad delightful follies.
0	He had seen grotesque children huddled upon door-steps, and heard shrieks and oaths from gloomy courts.
0	In fact, she was a kind of Proteus, and as much a failure in all her transformations as was that wondrous sea-god when Odysseus laid hold of him.
0	* * * * * And as he slept he dreamed a dream, and this was his dream.
0	It will be a great occasion!
0	_He has been termed by enthusiasts the Ideal Butler_.
0	In Egypt the sun is warm on the green palm-trees, and the crocodiles lie in the mud and look lazily about them.
0	Subtlety and distinction have not yet left the school.
0	I shall do so, my lord.
0	My dear Arthur, women are never disarmed by compliments.
0	We are both quite well, thank you, Lord Illingworth.
0	Dear Gertrude, we just called to know if Mrs. Cheveley’s diamond brooch has been found.
0	Of course I know that from one point of view things will be made different for me than for others; must indeed, by the very nature of the case, be made so.
0	I regard Henry as infamous, absolutely infamous.
0	I intend to call it ‘The Decay of Lying: A Protest.’ CYRIL.
0	asked Lord Henry, walking across the studio towards Basil Hallward.
0	But from the standpoint of art, what can be said in favour of the author of _L’Assommoir_, _Nana_ and _Pot-Bouille_?
0	"They found safety in the desert.
0	You seem to think the commonest device can take me in!
0	I shall come round and see you to-morrow, or next day.
0	So one should look on love.
0	They came up from Selby this morning.
0	Society is a necessary thing.
0	They are Hamlet's college friends.
0	_The Hall at Hunstanton Chase_.
0	You are not to open it.
0	Who the man is, why he died, how he died, are matters that do not concern you.
0	Shrill flaring gas-jets, dulled and distorted in the fly-blown mirrors that faced them, were ranged round the walls.
0	I need no second parent.
0	Through the still morning air the angels bring her the symbol of God’s pain.
0	For every hundred baskets we gave them a bead of amber.
0	But the son is quite interesting.
0	“Who are you?” he said.
0	And certainly once a man begins to neglect his domestic duties he becomes painfully effeminate, does he not?
0	"Why have you stopped playing, Dorian?
0	to all our second-rate _littérateurs_.
0	And when Avarice saw that a third of the multitude was dead she beat her breast and wept.
0	And now she is dead.
0	He passed out as his servant entered.
0	To get back my youth I would do anything in the world, except take exercise, get up early, or be respectable.
0	Her ladyship has just gone out.
0	That does not content her.
0	[_Sits down at LADY WINDERMERE.
0	Many of his plays, such as _Measure for Measure_, _Twelfth Night_, _The Two Gentleman of Verona_, _All’s Well that Ends Well_, _Cymbeline_, and others, depend for their illusion on the character of the various dresses worn by the hero or the heroine; the delightful scene in _Henry the Sixth_, on the modern miracles of healing by faith, loses all its point unless Gloster is in black and scarlet; and the _dénoûment_ of the _Merry Wives of Windsor_ hinges on the colour of Anne Page’s gown.
0	The essence of thought, as the essence of life, is growth.
0	They are either under no necessity to work for their living, or are enabled to choose the sphere of activity that is really congenial to them, and gives them pleasure.
0	To invent, an entirely new costume is almost impossible except in burlesque or extravaganza, and as for combining the dress of different centuries into one, the experiment would be dangerous, and Shakespeare’s opinion of the artistic value of such a medley may be gathered from his incessant satire of the Elizabethan dandies for imagining that they were well dressed because they got their doublets in Italy, their hats in Germany, and their hose in France.
0	The lonely church at Littlemore, where ‘the breath of the morning is damp, and worshippers are few,’ will always be dear to it, and whenever men see the yellow snapdragon blossoming on the wall of Trinity they will think of that gracious undergraduate who saw in the flower’s sure recurrence a prophecy that he would abide for ever with the Benign Mother of his days—a prophecy that Faith, in her wisdom or her folly, suffered not to be fulfilled.
0	I should like to be allowed a little time to myself now and then.
0	They never hit me, of course; we swallows fly far too well for that, and besides, I come of a family famous for its agility; but still, it was a mark of disrespect.” But the Happy Prince looked so sad that the little Swallow was sorry.
0	I have a perfect passion for listening through keyholes.
0	This world and I are on excellent terms.
0	For what man has sought for is, indeed, neither pain nor pleasure, but simply Life.
0	It was you I thought of all the time; I gave to them the love you did not need: lavished on them a love that was not theirs .
0	Lady Stutfield, shall we go in to tea?
0	[_She looks at_ LORD GORING, _who remains silent_.]
0	I don't want to know anything further.
0	But how are you going to begin?"
0	My dear, I hope there is nothing of the kind.
0	Dorian looked at him for a moment.
0	Yet there are many exceptions to this rule.
0	Your personality does not need it.
0	There is undoubtedly a great deal of corruption in American politics.
0	He always proposes on Tuesdays and Thursdays, during the Season.
0	If the wind blows an extra point or so, or the weather suddenly changes, or some trivial thing happens, his ship may go down, his speculations may go wrong, and he finds himself a poor man, with his social position quite gone.
0	"I should not wonder if he was quite right there.
0	But I speak merely of his incoherent work.
0	What a noble nature you have, Gwendolen!
0	The good ended happily, and the bad unhappily.
0	Of course, the attacks are very gross, very impertinent, and very contemptible.
0	In a few moments, Alan Campbell walked in, looking very stern and rather pale, his pallor being intensified by his coal-black hair and dark eyebrows.
0	He was the first person who ever said to people that they should live 'flower-like lives.'
0	Well, that spirit of choice, that subtle tact of omission, is really the critical faculty in one of its most characteristic moods, and no one who does not possess this critical faculty can create anything at all in art.
0	Now they have the press.
0	And in the case of all these creative critics of art it is evident that personality is an absolute essential for any real interpretation.
0	What on earth do you mean?
0	And Cecil has something to show you.
0	I have grown tired of the articulate utterances of men and things.
0	Did I not tell thee that I had heard in the palace the beatings of the wings of the angel of death, and hath he not come, the angel of death?
0	You might be its visible symbol.
0	From any ethical standpoint it is just what it should be.
0	He has said monstrous things against me.
0	I will not allow him to go.
0	She is quite incorrigible, Gerald, isn’t she?
0	No, I can’t shake hands with you.
0	I will certainly take care not to give away anything again.
0	He can be at peace.
0	of all I have in the whole world.
0	Dialogue, certainly, that wonderful literary form which, from Plato to Lucian, and from Lucian to Giordano Bruno, and from Bruno to that grand old Pagan in whom Carlyle took such delight, the creative critics of the world have always employed, can never lose for the thinker its attraction as a mode of expression.
0	Much of course may be done, in the way of educating the public, by amateurs in the domestic circle, at literary lunches, and at afternoon teas.
0	It was twenty years ago, too.
0	Art is a symbol, because man is a symbol.
0	The men I can always manage.
0	Mr. Chapman began to talk in a loud voice about the situation in the House of Commons.
0	About me, father, LORD CAVERSHAM.
0	"Has he never been jealous?"
0	"I have no doubt it was not an accident, Dorian, though it must be put in that way to the public.
0	But I wasn't quite sure.
0	There was nothing that one could not do with him.
0	And she has cut my heart in two.
0	Why is it, Dorian, that a man like the Duke of Berwick leaves the room of a club when you enter it?
0	There was something fascinating in this son of love and death.
0	I am afraid I shall be away for many years.
0	I have opals that burn always, with an icelike flame, opals that make sad men's minds, and are fearful of the shadows.
0	At least, I feel so happy that I am quite sure I have no character left at all.
0	There are better artists in France, but France has no one whose view of life is so large, so varied, so imaginatively true.
0	"I hear a gentleman comes every night to the theatre and goes behind to talk to her.
0	If you don't come to my assistance, I am ruined.
0	Let us never see each other again."
0	It was foolish of me, and yet I couldn't help it.
0	[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _sits down and writes a letter_.
0	Mr. Henry James writes fiction as if it were a painful duty, and wastes upon mean motives and imperceptible “points of view” his neat literary style, his felicitous phrases, his swift and caustic satire.
0	Gold hair, blue eyes, and rose-red lips--they all were there.
0	And yet I will not wear this robe, nor will I be crowned with this crown, but even as I came to the palace so will I go forth from it.’ And he bade them all leave him, save one page whom he kept as his companion, a lad a year younger than himself.
0	You must not laugh at me, darling, but it had always been a girlish dream of mine to love some one whose name was Ernest.
0	Well, would you mind my reforming myself this afternoon?
0	Do—do ask him to stay.
0	It’s a thing no married man knows anything about.
0	I am completely penniless, and absolutely homeless.
0	Another cope was of green velvet, embroidered with heart-shaped groups of acanthus-leaves, from which spread long-stemmed white blossoms, the details of which were picked out with silver thread and coloured crystals.
0	It is the hour when we sleep there."
0	When people are able to understand, not merely how beautiful ---'s action was, but why it meant so much to me, and always will mean so much, then, perhaps, they will realise how and in what spirit they should approach me.
0	And on the morrow the Woodcutter took the curious cloak of gold and placed it in a great chest, and a chain of amber that was round the child’s neck his wife took and set it in the chest also.
0	Yes; it is of my mother that he speaks.
0	This sounds strange to you all, no doubt.
0	She was well born, she had position—she lost everything—threw it away, if you like.
0	Oh, duty is what one expects from others, it is not what one does oneself.
0	They are a damaged lot.
0	Who was that who cried out?
0	I hope it will be triumph of me.
0	Why had his father not killed him, rather than sell him to his shame?
0	I am afraid I must go now, Lady Windermere.
0	I am but too conscious of the fact that we are born in an age when only the dull are treated seriously, and I live in terror of not being misunderstood.
0	He said that he would sooner part with her when their mother was not present.
0	You are shallow and stupid.
0	He seems to have grown quite cynical.
0	Death, being childless, wants our children from us.
0	I don't play accurately--any one can play accurately--but I play with wonderful expression.
0	In a house we all feel of the proper proportions.
0	Do you think this girl will ever be really content now with any one of her own rank?
0	Like all people who try to exhaust a subject, he exhausted his listeners.
0	And after that they had gone through many streets they came to a little door that was set in a wall that was covered with a pomegranate tree.
0	In fact, I sent out a special Commission to inquire into the matter privately, and they report that the works are hardly begun, and as for the money already subscribed, no one seems to know what has become of it.
0	One day you introduced me to a friend of yours, who explained to me the wonder of youth, and you finished a portrait of me that revealed to me the wonder of beauty.
0	I have told Farquhar to put a brace of partridge into the carriage.
0	Shall I play you a fantasy by Dvorák?
0	May I give you some tea, Mrs. Cheveley?
0	It may be that I have loved you too much.
0	No; I want to discuss the critic and criticism.
0	If you set a picture by Hokusai, or Hokkei, or any of the great native painters, beside a real Japanese gentleman or lady, you will see that there is not the slightest resemblance between them.
0	I want to be good.
0	As for Balzac, he was a most remarkable combination of the artistic temperament with the scientific spirit.
0	The presence of the servants exercises a restraining influence, under which both girls chafe.]
0	So do I.  Fathers have so much to learn from their sons nowadays.
0	Give me thy forgiveness, and let me go back to the forest.’  And the beggar-woman put her hand on his head, and said to him, ‘Rise,’ and the leper put his hand on his head, and said to him, ‘Rise,’ also.
0	They are like stains of blood on the cloth.
0	I want to make myself a position, to do something.
0	It is an old cistern.
0	It was a knife that he had brought up, some days before, to cut a piece of cord, and had forgotten to take away with him.
0	_The other guests have gone_.]
0	But haven’t women got a refining influence?
0	I wonder whom the brooch belongs to.
0	You don't know what an existence they lead down there.
0	And now it is almost impossible to enter any modern house without seeing some recognition of good taste, some recognition of the value of lovely surroundings, some sign of appreciation of beauty.
0	Her name is Mrs. Cheveley!
0	That's very forward of them.
0	"I have still the mask."
0	We must show all honours to the ambassadors of Cæsar.
0	The Book of Life begins with a man and a woman in a garden.
0	And of course a man who is much talked about is always very attractive.
0	And this is curious, considering the general colour of the dress of a century in which, as Baudelaire says, ‘Nous célébrons tous quelque enterrement.’  The archæologist of the future will probably point to this age as the time when the beauty of black was understood; but I hardly think that, as regards stage-mounting or house decoration, it really is.
0	However, it is a very young country, isn’t it?
0	They are really channels for the transmission, adequate or inadequate, of sense impressions.
0	She will dance so lightly that her feet will not touch the floor, and the courtiers in their gay dresses will throng round her.
0	what a wonderful thing to be safe!
0	Her long ermine-cloak reached right down to her feet, on her head was a tiny cap of silver tissue, and she was as pale as the Snow Palace in which she had always lived.
0	The world is simply divided into two classes—those who believe the incredible, like the public—and those who do the improbable— LORD ILLINGWORTH.
0	The things one feels absolutely certain about are never true.
0	[_Going up to the young Syrian._] You will do this tiling for me, will you not, Narraboth?
0	[LORD GORING _suddenly clasps it on her arm_.]
0	I think life too complex a thing to be settled by these hard and fast rules.
0	I am so sorry, Mrs. Erlynne, to have kept you waiting.
0	We are to see her to-night, if that boy doesn't forget his appointment."
0	He was gilded all over with thin leaves of fine gold, for eyes he had two bright sapphires, and a large red ruby glowed on his sword-hilt.
0	He had found it at last.
0	I have a collar of pearls, set in four rows.
0	What is of importance to-day, as yesterday, is still our son.
0	On November 13th, 1895, I was brought down here from London.
0	These are great treasures above all price.
0	A good deal was of course preserved in the Tower, and even in Elizabeth’s day tourists were brought there to see such curious relics of the past as Charles Brandon’s huge lance, which is still, I believe, the admiration of our country visitors; but the cathedrals and churches were, as a rule, selected as the most suitable shrines for the reception of the historic antiquities.
0	God is at no time hidden.
0	Princess, Princess, thou who art like a garden of myrrh, thou who art the dove of all doves, look not at this man, look not at him!
0	If a black dog run towards thee, strike it with a rod of willow, and it will go away.
0	But there is nothing interesting on.
0	His valet had crept several times on tiptoe into the room to see if he was stirring, and had wondered what made his young master sleep so late.
0	Here you are laughing and making merry just as if the Prince and Princess had not just been married.” “Well, really,” exclaimed a small Fire-balloon, “why not?
0	The drawback is that most people are so dreadfully expensive.
0	He has more, in fact, than I had even thought of.
0	And his Soul said to him, ‘If indeed thou must drive me from thee, send me not forth without a heart.
0	The world will know him merely as my private secretary, but to me he will be something very near, and very dear.
0	What a pity it is that they do not mean anything, or do any practical good.” And he went into his room, and lay down on his little pallet-bed, and began to think of his love; and, after a time, he fell asleep.
0	With squire and page, her husband passes from tent to tent.
0	As they entered the avenue of Canterville Chase, however, the sky became suddenly overcast with clouds, a curious stillness seemed to hold the atmosphere, a great flight of rooks passed silently over their heads, and, before they reached the house, some big drops of rain had fallen.
0	_The Octagon Room in Sir Robert Chiltern’s House in Grosvenor Square_.
0	Where questions of self-sacrifice are concerned, men are infinitely beyond us.
0	As the thought crept through his brain, he grew pale with terror, and the air seemed to him to have become suddenly colder.
0	You know you are standing on the edge of a precipice.
0	When a man is old enough to do wrong he should be old enough to do right also.
0	I have promised to dine at White's, but it is only with an old friend, so I can send him a wire to say that I am ill, or that I am prevented from coming in consequence of a subsequent engagement.
0	I am sorry now I did not tell my wife the whole thing at once.
0	Yesterday, when I heard that Sibyl Vane had killed herself--" "Killed herself!
0	Indeed, there is much more to be said in favour of the physical force of the public than there is in favour of the public’s opinion.
0	As for the aged, I always contradict the aged.
0	I’m so glad Lady Windermere has revived cards.—They’re a mother’s only safeguard.
0	But it may be asked how Individualism, which is now more or less dependent on the existence of private property for its development, will benefit by the abolition of such private property.
0	He was dazed with horror.
0	It is, to have the pleasure of quoting myself, exactly because Hecuba is nothing to us that her sorrows are so suitable a motive for a tragedy.
0	The whole of Venice was in those two lines.
0	"Yes; it is very tragic, of course, but you must not get yourself mixed up in it.
0	The flowers are like fire.
0	[_Enter Herod, Herodias, and all the Court._] Where is Salomé?
0	[_Throws letter down_, _and passes up the steps of the terrace with_ MRS. ALLONBY.
0	That is exactly what he should do.
0	It would kill the past, and when that was dead, he would be free.
0	If you had married this girl, you would have been wretched.
0	He is like a thin ivory statue.
0	Owing, perhaps, to what I must call its _obscure_ popularity in the continental theatres, Dr. Strauss was preparing his remarkable opera at the very moment when there appeared the criticisms to which I refer, and since the production of the opera in Dresden in December, 1905, English musical journalists and correspondents always refer to the work as founded on Wilde's drama.
0	_They are types of exquisite fragility_.
0	In a Temple every one should be serious, except the thing that is worshipped.
0	[_Turns a cold_, _glassy eye on_ HAROLD, _who at once retires_.]
0	But the little boy whom the Giant loved was never seen again.
0	On the wall, facing the throne, hung a life-sized portrait of Charles V. in hunting dress, with a great mastiff by his side, and a picture of Philip II.
0	Well, at the worst it would simply be a psychological experiment.
0	The Duke and his companions were dressed in serge tunics, leathern jerkins, high boots and gauntlets, and wore bycocket hats and hoods.
0	Indeed, there were many, especially among the very young men, who saw, or fancied that they saw, in Dorian Gray the true realization of a type of which they had often dreamed in Eton or Oxford days, a type that was to combine something of the real culture of the scholar with all the grace and distinction and perfect manner of a citizen of the world.
0	Wishing to make an effective entrance, he flung it wide open, when a heavy jug of water fell right down on him, wetting him to the skin, and just missing his left shoulder by a couple of inches.
0	The world was made for men and not for women.
0	Lady Hunstanton, I want to speak to Gerald at once.
0	He knows more about life than any one I have ever met.
0	Ugliness that had once been hateful to him because it made things real, became dear to him now for that very reason.
0	He is a dreamer, and he is called upon to act.
0	What is termed Sin is an essential element of progress.
0	But it is all right now.
0	They are quite right to be so.
0	You are lying to me!
0	The ghost started up with a wild shriek of rage, and swept through them like a mist, extinguishing Washington Otis's candle as he passed, and so leaving them all in total darkness.
0	This is one of the objects of the club.
0	Now I have merely everything that other people want, which isn’t nearly so pleasant.
0	I have not told _her_ the truth, you mean.
0	The wretched peasant who has just died is better off than I am.
0	Under the new conditions Individualism will be far freer, far finer, and far more intensified than it is now.
0	He accepted the imperial authority of the Roman Empire and paid tribute.
0	But you must know Lord Illingworth first.
0	Only tell me how to get rid of my soul, and I will give thee all that I possess.’ She laughed mockingly at him, and struck him with the spray of hemlock.
0	I'll have it off the bunch in a moment.
0	We shall lay our hands upon the basilisk, and see the jewel in the toad’s head.
0	All sympathy is fine, but sympathy with suffering is the least fine mode.
0	I have sworn by my gods.
0	People must adopt some attitude towards me, and so pass judgment, both on themselves and me.
0	In the long cedar chests that lined the west gallery of his house, he had stored away many rare and beautiful specimens of what is really the raiment of the Bride of Christ, who must wear purple and jewels and fine linen that she may hide the pallid macerated body that is worn by the suffering that she seeks for and wounded by self-inflicted pain.
0	And after all this some wretched modern Americans were to come and offer him the Rising Sun Lubricator, and throw pillows at his head!
0	They would love his playing."
0	Hallo, mother, whose glove is this?
0	"I won't hear of it," laughed Lord Henry, sinking into a chair.
0	He knew that in the soul of one who is ignorant there is always room for a great idea.
0	It is the only excuse they have for being plain.
0	‘Thou knowest,’ answered his Soul, ‘thou knowest it well.
0	Pleasure may turn a heart to stone, riches may make it callous, but sorrow—oh, sorrow cannot break it.
0	And at last I called them by their names, and they did not come.
0	He either falls into careless habits of accuracy—’ CYRIL.
0	An hour and a half ago in the Drawing-room you agreed to the whole thing; now you turn round and make objections, and try to force me to give up my one chance in life.
0	Oh, I hope not, dear.
0	Yes, the lad was premature.
0	Why did you paint it?
0	The sprinkling, and, indeed, the immersion of adults is a perfectly canonical practice.
0	In less than a quarter of an hour, Dorian Gray was galloping down the long avenue as hard as he could go.
0	The next morning, before Lord Canterville went up to town, Mr. Otis had an interview with him on the subject of the jewels the ghost had given to Virginia.
0	I agree with it, Miss Worsley.
0	You’ve been doing too much.
0	Here are two chairs; let us sit down and see the smart people go by."
0	Was it in order that you might have an opportunity of coming up to town to see me as often as possible?
0	There is some good in every one.
0	Men don’t understand what mothers are.
0	How absurdly nervous you are, my dear fellow!
0	I hope, Cecily, you are not inattentive.
0	Dorian told me so afterwards.
0	He would go and look.
0	So Lady Hunstanton told me.
0	He was too polite to make any personal remarks out loud.
0	At that time I used to read serial stories, and I well remember the shock of surprise I felt when I came to the description of the heroine.
0	I wish I could think so, Mrs. Erlynne.
0	He watched it as though it were a thing that could fascinate and make afraid, as though it held something that he longed for and yet almost loathed.
0	Your wife will forgive you.
0	I have made up my mind what I am going to do to-night in the House.
0	[_Stands back of table L.C._] DUCHESS OF BERWICK.
0	You remind me of the day I saw you first.
0	Don’t hold me, you fool.
0	A beautiful girl came out on the balcony with her lover.
0	Henry II wore jewelled gloves reaching to the elbow, and had a hawk-glove sewn with twelve rubies and fifty-two great orients.
0	Few of us escape it.
0	When I am in trouble, eating is the only thing that consoles me.
0	I'll bet you anything you like that half an hour after they have met, they will be calling each other sister.
0	Ultimately she came to grief, disappeared to the Continent, and used to be occasionally seen at Monte Carlo and other gambling places.
0	"Each of us has heaven and hell in him, Basil," cried Dorian with a wild gesture of despair.
0	The whole palace seemed asleep, and even where the shutters had not been closed, heavy curtains had been drawn across the windows to keep out the glare.
0	I feel proud, terribly proud.
0	Would you kindly tell him I’ve gone?
0	Robespierre came out of the pages of Rousseau as surely as the People’s Palace rose out of the _débris_ of a novel.
0	I will dance for you, Tetrarch.
0	So we have come in to fetch you.
0	They moved like monstrous marionettes and made gestures like live things.
0	is there no doubt about that?"
0	A very ancient prophet of this country, Princess.
0	Lord Illingworth, you have insulted the purest thing on God’s earth, a thing as pure as my own mother.
0	And when I use such a phrase as that, I need not say that I am not alluding to any external sanction or command.
0	There be some who lack raiment, and others who lack bread.
0	"Mother, Mother, I am so happy!"
0	Oh, I might trot round about five if that would suit you.
0	I entirely decline to be mixed up in your life.
0	[_Is a little taken aback_, _but recovers himself_.]
0	To test reality we must see it on the tight rope.
0	she cried, "what does money matter?
0	But when I think that they might lose their only son, I certainly am very much affected.” “You certainly are!” cried the Bengal Light.
0	Then we must get her out of the Jew's hands.
0	I forbid Him to do that.
0	Besides, Robert has been punished enough.
0	‘Then at sunset in some secret place we shall dance together,’ he said, ‘and after that we have danced thou shalt tell me the thing which I desire to know.’ She shook her head.
0	They can sit at their ease and gape at the play.
0	There are lights in the room, and the door is ajar.
0	We all wronged her immensely.
0	And though the cenobite realises his personality, it is often an impoverished personality that he so realises.
0	The Duchess of Gloucester stands in a white sheet with her husband in mourning beside her.
0	Why do you not answer it?
0	I am never going to try to harm Robert Chiltern again.
0	There are things that are right to say, but that may be said at the wrong time and to the wrong people.
0	For weeks he would not go there, would forget the hideous painted thing, and get back his light heart, his wonderful joyousness, his passionate absorption in mere existence.
0	It will be as wonderful as the personality of a child.
0	Wasn’t it made at the same time as the others, Duchess?
0	Though it be the day of my coronation, I will not wear them.
0	How perfectly hideous they are!
0	I don't know which to follow.
0	The Prince and Princess sat at the top of the Great Hall and drank out of a cup of clear crystal.
0	In fact, she is like most artists; she is all style, without any sincerity.
0	How utterly illogical you are!
0	I write this account of the mode of my being transferred here simply that it should be realised how hard it has been for me to get anything out of my punishment but bitterness and despair.
0	I do want to preach to you.
0	Perhaps the world already suspected it.
0	Facts are not merely finding a footing-place in history, but they are usurping the domain of Fancy, and have invaded the kingdom of Romance.
0	I would have made you famous, splendid, magnificent.
0	I dare not tell her who this woman really is.
0	For accursed were they in their lives, and accursed shall they be in their deaths also.’ And the people did as he commanded them, and in the corner of the Field of the Fullers, where no sweet herbs grew, they dug a deep pit, and laid the dead things within it.
0	I think it is ridiculous to dispute about such things.
0	On the table stood a flat bowl of amethyst.
0	The fat knight has his moods of melancholy, and the young prince his moments of coarse humour.
0	but what do you mean by good?"
0	Our weather is so changeable.
0	It was generally assumed that the ghost had gone away, and, in fact, Mr. Otis wrote a letter to that effect to Lord Canterville, who, in reply, expressed his great pleasure at the news, and sent his best congratulations to the Minister's worthy wife.
0	I often regret, Lady Caroline, that dear Lady Cecilia never lived to see her son get the title.
0	One of the Dorsetshire Cheveleys, I suppose.
0	I shall probably have to give it another coat of varnish before that, so I must see it some day, and why not to-day?"
0	It is so shallow of them.
0	No dinner-party is complete without him.
0	And he who made them, those wonderful quickly-moving figures, made them for his own pleasure, and has never asked the public what they wanted, has never cared to know what they wanted, has never allowed the public to dictate to him or influence him in any way but has gone on intensifying his own personality, and producing his own individual work.
0	She felt sure that the _tableau_ was interesting.
0	At half-past one, instead of two.
0	I hold your husband in the hollow of my hand, and if you are wise you will make him do what I tell him.
0	_He is evidently in a state of great mental excitement and distress_.
0	I don't care what you say to me.
0	This is of course a mere outline of the book.
0	By deliberate choice he has made himself a romanticist.
0	Don't stir, and don't look at me like that.
0	Far off, like a perfect pearl, one can see the city of God.
0	And one of them said to the other: ‘This is a bitter ending to our hope, nor have we any good fortune, for what doth a child profit to a man?
0	The driver laughed and whipped up.
0	As I found it, I want to keep it.
0	But we can soon alter all that.
0	He had never felt it before.
0	She is bad—as bad as a woman can be.
0	I shouldn't know what to talk to him about.
0	It is a curious thing, Rachel; my life seemed to be quite complete.
0	"Describe us as a sex," was her challenge.
0	She lingered for a few moments, and was garrulous over some detail of the household.
0	“They are like the Aurora Borealis,” said the King, who always answered questions that were addressed to other people, “only much more natural.
0	But when the play is over one realises that the laughter of the witches in ‘Macbeth’ is as terrible as the laughter of madness in ‘Lear,’ more terrible than the laughter of Iago in the tragedy of the Moor.
0	said the American Minister, calmly, as he lit a long cheroot.
0	Note that later editions of De Profundis contained more material.
0	Vice and virtue are to the artist materials for an art.
0	His spear lay by his side unused, and his baskets of plaited osier were empty.
0	Since the introduction of printing, and the fatal development of the habit of reading amongst the middle and lower classes of this country, there has been a tendency in literature to appeal more and more to the eye, and less and less to the ear which is really the sense which, from the standpoint of pure art, it should seek to please, and by whose canons of pleasure it should abide always.
0	The picture itself--that was evidence.
0	The intellect is not a serious thing, and never has been.
0	[_Takes card from salver and looks at it_.]
0	But one can’t have everything, can one?
0	I wish I had brought you up!
0	She wept silently, and made no answer, but crept nearer.
0	I might be married to her; she treats me with such demmed indifference.
0	Tuppy can’t talk about anything but Mrs. Erlynne.
0	If it did, it would prove a serious danger to the upper classes, and probably lead to acts of violence in Grosvenor Square.
0	When he enters he coughs loudly, seeing the situation.]
0	[Picking up empty plate in horror.]
0	Did it mean that he was to confess?
0	Come and lunch on Friday.
0	But when did you first speak to Miss Sibyl Vane?"
0	I suppose one of the many good elderly women who are associated with Uncle Jack in some of his philanthropic work in London.
0	Posthumus hides his passion under a peasant’s garb, and Edgar his pride beneath an idiot’s rags; Portia wears the apparel of a lawyer, and Rosalind is attired in ‘all points as a man’; the cloak-bag of Pisanio changes Imogen to the Youth Fidele; Jessica flees from her father’s house in boy’s dress, and Julia ties up her yellow hair in fantastic love-knots, and dons hose and doublet; Henry the Eighth woos his lady as a shepherd, and Romeo his as a pilgrim; Prince Hal and Poins appear first as footpads in buckram suits, and then in white aprons and leather jerkins as the waiters in a tavern: and as for Falstaff, does he not come on as a highwayman, as an old woman, as Herne the Hunter, and as the clothes going to the laundry?
0	Rachel, at the present moment you are not necessary to Gerald’s career; I am.
0	Of what use is my soul to me?
0	"So I have murdered Sibyl Vane," said Dorian Gray, half to himself, "murdered her as surely as if I had cut her little throat with a knife.
0	What matter what the cost was?
0	[_Goes with him towards door_.]
0	Who brought Mrs. Cheveley here?
0	Oh, ten years ago, on Lady Berkshire, from whom you stole it.
0	The sound of a piano is heard in the adjoining room.
0	He rejected the claims of family life, although they existed in his day and community in a very marked form.
0	You laugh; but believe me it is so.
0	[_Puts his hands on his shoulders_.]
0	In many ways I had been its enemy, but I found it waiting for me as a friend.
0	It will ruin her, and make her wretched.
0	In fact the whole of Japan is a pure invention.
0	I always take hock-and-seltzer myself.
0	Then the marvellous gospel of gold breaks down sometimes.
0	I suppose they don't know your name at the theatre?
0	Oh, I don’t think I should like that.
0	I believe, according to the peerage, it is ten years, but ten years with Monmouth must have been like eternity, with time thrown in.
0	You have been christened already.
0	The children, however, were rather frightened at their spotted hoods and quick darting tongues, and were much more pleased when the juggler made a tiny orange-tree grow out of the sand and bear pretty white blossoms and clusters of real fruit; and when he took the fan of the little daughter of the Marquess de Las-Torres, and changed it into a blue bird that flew all round the pavilion and sang, their delight and amazement knew no bounds.
0	But there is one thing worse than an absolutely loveless marriage.
0	He has lots of money, and he's as bad as bad."
0	[In a severe, judicial voice.]
0	This bank rises rather suddenly on the right     to a clustering grove, penetrable to no star, at the entrance of     which sits the stunned Thessalian king, holding between his knees     that ivory-bright body which was, but an instant agone, parting the     rough boughs with her smooth forehead, and treading alike on thorns     and flowers with jealousy-stung foot—now helpless, heavy, void of all     motion, save when the breeze lifts her thick hair in mockery.
0	It produces a false impression.
0	The very landscape that Corot looked at was, as he said himself, but a mood of his own mind; and those great figures of Greek or English drama that seem to us to possess an actual existence of their own, apart from the poets who shaped and fashioned them, are, in their ultimate analysis, simply the poets themselves, not as they thought they were, but as they thought they were not; and by such thinking came in strange manner, though but for a moment, really so to be.
0	I beg your pardon, Gwendolen, did you say Ernest?
0	Horatio, who in order to 'report Hamlet and his cause aright to the unsatisfied,'    'Absents him from felicity a while,    And in this harsh world draws his breath in pain,' dies, but Guildenstern and Rosencrantz are as immortal as Angelo and Tartuffe, and should rank with them.
0	And by work I simply mean activity of any kind.
0	It always will worship you.
0	Who is this woman, then?
0	Well, Rachel, what in over is over.
0	When the truth dawned upon him, he gave a wild cry of despair, and fell sobbing to the ground.
0	I suppose it was Mrs. Allonby I saw him with.
0	"I promised to go to a club in Whitechapel with her last Tuesday, and I really forgot all about it.
0	It is pleasant to sit in the green wood, and to watch the Sun in his chariot of gold, and the Moon in her chariot of pearl.
0	He chuckled to himself, and turned the corner; but no sooner had he done so than, with a piteous wail of terror, he fell back, and hid his blanched face in his long, bony hands.
0	What stuff and nonsense all this about men is!
0	It was like a placid mask of servility.
0	"A great many, I fear," she cried.
0	Is that which is pleasant to eat not made for the eater?
0	He writes lurid little tragedies in which everybody is ridiculous; bitter comedies at which one cannot laugh for very tears.
0	The highest art rejects the burden of the human spirit, and gains more from a new medium or a fresh material than she does from any enthusiasm for art, or from any lofty passion, or from any great awakening of the human consciousness.
0	There is nothing in you; you are hollow and empty.
0	Were you with him at the end?
0	There was something sly about him, and he had thoughtful, treacherous eyes.
0	I am convinced that there is no other, and that if the world has indeed, as I have said, been built of sorrow, it has been built by the hands of love, because in no other way could the soul of man, for whom the world was made, reach the full stature of its perfection.
0	CYRIL (_coming in through the open window from the terrace_).
0	Whatever is realised is right.
0	Meredith is a prose Browning, and so is Browning.
0	To deny one's own experiences is to put a lie into the lips of one's own life.
0	In what a vicious circle it always moves!
0	Gradually white fingers creep through the curtains, and they appear to tremble.
0	"He has a simple and a beautiful nature.
0	Dear Margaret, I am so pleased to see you.
0	THE DECAY OF LYING: A PROTEST.—One of the chief causes that can be assigned for the curiously commonplace character of most of the literature of our age is undoubtedly the decay of Lying as an art, a science, and a social pleasure.
0	I will offer him mine now.
0	You are certainly my best friend.
0	You swore it before everybody.
0	It was true that the portrait still preserved, under all the foulness and ugliness of the face, its marked likeness to himself; but what could they learn from that?
0	You can't have forgotten that you assured me most solemnly that nothing in the world would induce you to send it to any exhibition.
0	[Algernon goes forward to meet them.
0	To love oneself is the beginning of a lifelong romance, Phipps.
0	The moon heard thy name, yet hadst thou no heed of me.
0	And what have we to do with the lives of those who toil for us?
0	I don’t think that we should ever be spoken of as other people’s property.
0	I, I saw thee, Jokanaan, and I loved thee.
0	It is only about things that do not interest one that one can give a really unbiassed opinion, which is no doubt the reason why an unbiassed opinion is always absolutely valueless.
0	He had got from her his beauty, and his passion for the beauty of others.
0	You must not bring misery into your husband’s life.
0	For this reason there is no truth comparable to sorrow.
0	It slipped down the side of the sky, passing by the other stars in its course, and, as they watched it wondering, it seemed to them to sink behind a clump of willow-trees that stood hard by a little sheepfold no more than a stone’s-throw away.
0	Man is complete in himself.
0	Of course, I was influenced by my mother.
0	He turned to Hallward and said, "My dear fellow, I have just remembered."
0	I should like to write a novel certainly, a novel that would be as lovely as a Persian carpet and as unreal.
0	[_Goes over to the writing-table and pulls out the drawers_.]
0	If they saw the beauties, they would not object to the development of the drama; and if they saw the defects, they would not object to the development of the drama either.
0	She must not dance on blood.
0	In America we have no lower classes.
0	Why had he been made like that?
0	Sometimes when he was down at his great house in Nottinghamshire, entertaining the fashionable young men of his own rank who were his chief companions, and astounding the county by the wanton luxury and gorgeous splendour of his mode of life, he would suddenly leave his guests and rush back to town to see that the door had not been tampered with and that the picture was still there.
0	In this world like meets with like.
0	I am putting it into practice, as I do everything that you say."
0	I don’t think Lord Goring has arrived yet.
0	I only want the key."
0	He would often spend a whole day settling and resettling in their cases the various stones that he had collected, such as the olive-green chrysoberyl that turns red by lamplight, the cymophane with its wirelike line of silver, the pistachio-coloured peridot, rose-pink and wine-yellow topazes, carbuncles of fiery scarlet with tremulous, four-rayed stars, flame-red cinnamon-stones, orange and violet spinels, and amethysts with their alternate layers of ruby and sapphire.
0	Well, that is only to be expected, is it not?
0	Why did you wish to meet my husband, Mrs. Cheveley?
0	He had that dislike of being stared at, which comes on geniuses late in life and never leaves the commonplace.
0	You laugh at the simple and the pure.
0	Art, and art only, can make archæology beautiful; and the theatric art can use it most directly and most vividly, for it can combine in one exquisite presentation the illusion of actual life with the wonder of the unreal world.
0	How very trivial of him!
0	"We don't know who he is, sir.
0	You gave her good advice and broke her heart.
0	I sat in the dingy box absolutely enthralled.
0	Well, Salomé, you do not wish a misfortune to happen to me?
0	how marriage ruins a man!
0	[_With a gesture of despair_.]
0	"Then you shall come; and you will come, too, Basil, won't you?"
0	All life, indeed, was his, from the merchants seated in the market-place to the cloaked shepherd lying on the hill; from the nymph hidden in the laurels and the faun that pipes at noon, to the king whom, in long green-curtained litter, slaves bore upon oil-bright shoulders, and fanned with peacock fans.
0	After a pause, Lord Henry pulled out his watch.
0	Here and there a lantern gleamed at the stern of some huge merchantman.
0	Not that many ladies call on her, dear, but she has a great many disreputable men friends—my own brother particularly, as I told you—and that is what makes it so dreadful about Windermere.
0	He himself did not gain any monetary advantage by doing this.
0	How should I fly?’ And to the little Squirrel who lived in the fir-tree, and was lonely, he said, ‘Where is my mother?’ And the Squirrel answered, ‘Thou hast slain mine.
0	Either marry you, or strike you across the face with her glove.
0	He realized that, and when he had locked the door of his library, he opened the secret press into which he had thrust Basil Hallward's coat and bag.
0	Mr. Worthing, I confess I feel somewhat bewildered by what you have just told me.
0	Suddenly the man drew up with a jerk at the top of a dark lane.
0	Huge tortoises lay asleep upon the hot mud.
0	He is not like other men.
0	But have I proved my theory to your satisfaction?
0	Suppose that when I leave this house I drive down to some newspaper office, and give them this scandal and the proofs of it!
0	What is your objection to the hour?
0	"I want you and Basil to come with me some night and see her act.
0	You look exactly the same wonderful boy who, day after day, used to come down to my studio to sit for his picture.
0	The butter would probably get on my cuffs.
0	Silliest word in our language, and one knows so well the popular idea of health.
0	"They must interest you, Dorian.
0	I should not forgive that.
0	It is in my dressing-room at home.
0	Ah, Margaret, do this for my sake; it is her last chance.
0	“What a silly thing Love is,” said the Student as he walked away.
0	A thoroughly sensible wife would reduce me to a condition of absolute idiocy in less than six months.
0	That seems to me altogether ridiculous.
0	Where had they passed to?
0	It is my disgrace that has bound you so closely to me.
0	It is the first time in my life that I have ever been reduced to such a painful position, and I am really quite inexperienced in doing anything of the kind.
0	I wanted to be engaged to Gwendolen, that is all.
0	Words are perhaps the worst.
0	I have written a line to your dear mother, Gerald, to tell her your good news, and to say she really must come to dinner.
0	It trusts to Socialism and to Science as its methods.
0	Nature is always behind the age.
0	Your public life must be a great source of gratification to Mrs. Kettle.
0	I will send one of the servants into the dining-room to fetch him.
0	I felt the room looked different as I came in."
0	Ever ready to do anything for you, sir."
0	The General was essentially a man of peace, except in his domestic life.
0	He wondered if he had met the men in the hall as they were leaving the house and had wormed out of them what they had been doing.
0	Fifty pounds is a very large sum.
0	After we have discussed some Chambertin and a few ortolans, we will pass on to the question of the critic considered in the light of the interpreter.
0	It is with the future that we have to deal.
0	Who could help loving her?
0	‘In very truth I will let thee go,’ said the young Fisherman.
0	That side of life is over for me, very fortunately, I dare say.
0	They said it so often and so tediously that, at last, the Church has begun to say it.
0	Well, I should say that a critic should above all things be fair.
0	"Being natural is simply a pose, and the most irritating pose I know," cried Lord Henry, laughing; and the two young men went out into the garden together and ensconced themselves on a long bamboo seat that stood in the shade of a tall laurel bush.
0	But we never get back our youth.
0	And I quite agree with her.
0	Philanthropic people lose all sense of humanity.
0	But it is no longer the real force it was.
0	Nor would there be any use in telling them.
0	Their explanations appear to be quite satisfactory, especially Mr. Worthing's.
0	Lady Archibald Campbell’s production, under Mr. E. W. Godwin’s direction, of the same play in Coombe Wood was, as regards mounting, far more artistic.
0	said the younger man wearily.
0	It will love them because they will be different.
0	The ethical effect of art, its importance to culture, and its place in the formation of character, had been done once for all by Plato; but here we have art treated, not from the moral, but from the purely æsthetic point of view.
0	You are not going to plunge us into a European war, I hope?
0	There had been nothing more.
0	In fact, now you mention the subject, I have been very bad in my own small way.
0	Yet Love is better than Life, and what is the heart of a bird compared to the heart of a man?” So she spread her brown wings for flight, and soared into the air.
0	I wouldn’t have accepted a penny from her.
0	‘Thou hast done me no evil, but I have no need of thee,’ he answered.
0	It was at a dinner at Charles Lamb’s.
0	We are both engaged to be married to your brother Ernest, so it is a matter of some importance to us to know where your brother Ernest is at present.
0	I’ll be back in five minutes.
0	You are ill. Let us go within.
0	The doctors found out that Bunbury could not live, that is what I mean--so Bunbury died.
0	Then you will know what it is.
0	At least, I can't believe them when I see you.
0	How he first became fascinated by this strange sin he does not tell us, and the diary in which he carefully noted the results of his terrible experiments and the methods that he adopted, has unfortunately been lost to us.
0	My father was a Rocket like myself, and of French extraction.
0	You had brought me something higher, something of which all art is but a reflection.
0	You regret your good ones—that is the difference between us.
0	In criticising the importance given to money in _La Comédie Humaine_, Théophile Gautier says that Balzac may claim to have invented a new hero in fiction, _le héros métallique_.
0	Redder than male rubies were the roses, and their leaves were of beaten gold.
0	He was black as ebony, and his turban was of crimson silk.
0	My prizes came a little later on in life.
0	When I close my eyes, I hear them, and each of them says something different.
0	It was a magnificent ceremony, and the bride and bridegroom walked hand in hand under a canopy of purple velvet embroidered with little pearls.
0	O, Salomé, Salomé, dance for me!
0	As he thought of it, a sharp pang of pain struck through him like a knife and made each delicate fibre of his nature quiver.
0	I am far more of an individualist than I ever was.
0	Over his face hung a cowl of grey linen, and through the eyelets his eyes gleamed like red coals.
0	Who can help laughing when an ordinary journalist seriously proposes to limit the subject-matter at the disposal of the artist?
0	If you are not quite sure about your ever having been christened, I must say I think it rather dangerous your venturing on it now.
0	It involves sordid preoccupation, endless industry, continual wrong.
0	I heard a chair fall in the next room.
0	The one characteristic of a beautiful form is that one can put into it whatever one wishes, and see in it whatever one chooses to see; and the Beauty, that gives to creation its universal and æsthetic element, makes the critic a creator in his turn, and whispers of a thousand different things which were not present in the mind of him who carved the statue or painted the panel or graved the gem.
0	He never says it afterwards.
0	Dear to him was the perfume of the bean-field at evening, and dear to him the odorous eared-spikenard that grew on the Syrian hills, and the fresh green thyme, the wine-cup’s charm.
0	Indeed, as any one who has ever worked among the poor knows only too well, the brotherhood of man is no mere poet’s dream, it is a most depressing and humiliating reality; and if a writer insists upon analysing the upper classes, he might just as well write of match-girls and costermongers at once.’  However, my dear Cyril, I will not detain you any further just here.
0	_Then the eyes of the two women meet_.
0	I give you my word of honour.
0	Now and then, in the course of the century, a great man of science, like Darwin; a great poet, like Keats; a fine critical spirit, like M. Renan; a supreme artist, like Flaubert, has been able to isolate himself, to keep himself out of reach of the clamorous claims of others, to stand ‘under the shelter of the wall,’ as Plato puts it, and so to realise the perfection of what was in him, to his own incomparable gain, and to the incomparable and lasting gain of the whole world.
0	As there is a God in Heaven, I will kill you!
0	I suppose this will be the last ball of the season?
0	Never know when you are serious or not.
0	"He won't like you the better for keeping your promises.
0	When there is no punishment at all, crime will either cease to exist, or, if it occurs, will be treated by physicians as a very distressing form of dementia, to be cured by care and kindness.
0	Luigne Poë produced the play for the first time at the Théâtre Libre in Paris, with Lina Muntz in the title role.
0	"I have travelled all over it in cars provided by the directors, who, in such matters, are extremely civil.
0	All over England there is a Renaissance of the decorative Arts.
0	No winter marred his face or stained his flowerlike bloom.
0	No: let me play to you some mad scarlet thing by Dvorák.
0	There is no knowledge of any thing.
0	At present I feel that he is just a little too modern to be treated in that fine spirit of disinterested curiosity to which we owe so many charming studies of the great criminals of the Italian Renaissance from the pens of Mr. John Addington Symonds, Miss A. Mary F. Robinson, Miss Vernon Lee, and other distinguished writers.
0	To it we owe the epic, the lyric, the entire drama in every one of its developments, including burlesque, the idyll, the romantic novel, the novel of adventure, the essay, the dialogue, the oration, the lecture, for which perhaps we should not forgive them, and the epigram, in all the wide meaning of that word.
0	Yes, I am Mr. Worthing's ward.
0	I admit that I think that it is better to be beautiful than to be good.
0	How dare you say it?"
0	"Moderation is a fatal thing.
0	People whose desire is solely for self-realisation never know where they are going.
0	It is so sombre, so depressing.
0	The air here is delicious.
0	But this picture will remain always young.
0	[_The_ VICOMTE _is about to retire_.
0	All day long the fight rages, and when night comes the torches gleam by the tents, and the cresset burns in the hall.
0	Thy hair is like the cedars of Lebanon, like the great cedars of Lebanon that give their shade to the lions and to the robbers who would hide themselves by day.
0	Oh, please don’t say such a thing.
0	But it is for an excellent charity: in aid of the Undeserving, the only people I am really interested in.
0	You have no philosophy of life.
0	Poor, silly, conceited Mr. Secretary Pepys has chattered his way into the circle of the Immortals, and, conscious that indiscretion is the better part of valour, bustles about among them in that ‘shaggy purple gown with gold buttons and looped lace’ which he is so fond of describing to us, perfectly at his ease, and prattling, to his own and our infinite pleasure, of the Indian blue petticoat that he bought for his wife, of the ‘good hog’s hars-let,’ and the ‘pleasant French fricassee of veal’ that he loved to eat, of his game of bowls with Will Joyce, and his ‘gadding after beauties,’ and his reciting of _Hamlet_ on a Sunday, and his playing of the viol on week days, and other wicked or trivial things.
0	That is the first unkind thing you have ever said to me.
0	[_In his most serious manner_.]
0	The river-horse couches there among the bulrushes, and on a great granite throne sits the God Memnon.
0	He could recognise it without reading it, couldn’t he?
0	We cannot go back to the philosopher, and the mystic leads us astray.
0	Her hair clustered round her face like dark leaves round a pale rose.
0	"You cannot change to me, Dorian," said Lord Henry.
0	He spoke with a very slow, distinct voice, as if he was dictating his memoirs, and always looked over the shoulder of the person to whom he was talking.
0	It is only fair, and she looks like a woman with a past, doesn’t she?
0	"But I don't want to be rechristened, Harry," rejoined the duchess, looking up at him with her wonderful eyes.
0	Its value will not be measured by material things.
0	Here we are at your door.
0	[_Sits down beside_ LADY STUTFIELD.]
0	I am afraid you have had very little experience in how to propose.
0	What are called good women may have terrible things in them, mad moods of recklessness, assertion, jealousy, sin.
0	It makes one so nervous about the future.
0	Nowadays all the married men live like bachelors, and all the bachelors like married men."
0	To say nothing of the fact that she is my ward.
0	A great multitude used to follow him.
0	The terrible excitement of the last four weeks was beginning to have its effect.
0	no gold was in it, nor silver, nor, indeed, treasure of any kind, but only a little child who was asleep.
0	And the master of the galley laughed, and, reaching out, he took the pearl, and when he saw it he pressed it to his forehead and bowed.
0	The poor reviewers are apparently reduced to be the reporters of the police-court of literature, the chroniclers of the doings of the habitual criminals of art.
0	You are a very charming young lady!
0	Rejoice not thou, land of Palestine, because the rod of him who smote thee is broken.
0	They certainly come to my parties—the men get quite furious if one doesn’t ask them.
0	But whatever he is, he is not a realist.
0	LADY CHILTERN _kneels down beside her husband_, _and puts her arms around him_.]
0	He accordingly rubbed out the stain a second time, but the second morning it appeared again.
0	"But, really, it seems rather absurd that I shouldn't see my own work, especially as I am going to exhibit it in Paris in the autumn.
0	Want to speak to you particularly, dear boy.
0	will pay you very handsomely!
0	Well, in the first place girls never marry the men they flirt with.
0	The others he opened listlessly.
0	As soon as there was perfect silence, the Rocket coughed a third time and began.
0	Such a chance as few men get.
0	Eighteen, but admitting to twenty at evening parties.
0	That depends on the intellectual sympathies of the woman.
0	He would deliver critical touches on these,     like one inspired, but it was good to let him choose his own game; if     another began even on the acknowledged pets he was liable to     interrupt, or rather append, in a mode difficult to define whether as     misapprehensive or mischievous.
0	Her own son-in-law supplies it.
0	Its voice was low and flute-like, and its lips hardly moved while it spake.
0	What is it then, sir?
0	Why did you pretend to be my guardian's brother?
0	He glanced about as if in search of something.
0	I met him at dinner last week.
0	I am not sure, however, that the news inspires me with feelings of unmixed delight.
0	But in the case of Shakespeare it is quite obvious that the public really see neither the beauties nor the defects of his plays.
0	And when she saw that she could not free herself, she whispered to him, ‘Surely I am as fair as the daughters of the sea, and as comely as those that dwell in the blue waters,’ and she fawned on him and put her face close to his.
0	They are in the music-room.
0	It was a very wild night, and the wind was blowing and roaring round the house so terribly that at first he thought it was merely the storm.
0	The waters cannot quench her anguish.
0	"I owe a great deal to Harry, Basil," he said at last, "more than I owe to you.
0	Gwendolen Fairfax: Miss Irene Vanbrugh.
0	"My uncle has already suggested pork-packing, Sir Thomas."
0	It might do you a great deal of good.
0	He hated the idea of even touching them.
0	But how did we become engaged?
0	He thrust up the trap and called to the man to drive faster.
0	I am not so sure.
0	"Yes, Dorian, I suppose you were right," said Hallward slowly.
0	You know what they are.
0	I do no wish to look at thee.
0	I was twenty-one, I believe, when the whole thing began in your father’s garden.
0	Once, too, he had seen a beautiful procession winding up the long dusty road to Toledo.
0	And you must begin by telling your wife the whole story.
0	You do not ask me that.
0	But before he had opened his wings, a third drop fell, and he looked up, and saw—Ah!
0	You may know terror yourself some day.
0	To myself, perhaps," he added, passing his hand over his eyes, with a gesture of pain.
0	You are quite right, I spoiled it all last night.
0	I only knew that I had seen perfection face to face, and that the world had become wonderful to my eyes--too wonderful, perhaps, for in such mad worships there is peril, the peril of losing them, no less than the peril of keeping them....
0	The young man had his head buried in his hands, so he did not hear the flutter of the bird’s wings, and when he looked up he found the beautiful sapphire lying on the withered violets.
0	Quite a well-kept garden this is, Miss Cardew.
0	I write simply to ask you to allow me to correct a       misstatement that appears in the review in question.
0	He seemed terribly disappointed at that, and confided to me that all the dramatic critics were in a conspiracy against him, and that they were every one of them to be bought."
0	I am not surprised—it is charming.
0	You have read this letter, I suppose, Rachel?
0	I have lain in prison for nearly two years.
0	I don’t know how to talk.
0	I can produce the hand-bag at any moment.
0	No; you shall have Mabel.
0	"But, surely, if one lives merely for one's self, Harry, one pays a terrible price for doing so?"
0	Oh, before the end of the week I shall have got rid of him.
0	_I_ know that too well.
0	[_She leans over the cistern and listens._] There is no sound.
0	Continuing his disgraceful deception, he succeeded in the course of the afternoon in alienating the affections of my only ward.
0	He is a poet himself.
0	Worlds had to be in travail, that the meanest flower might blow.... And how charming he had been at dinner the night before, as with startled eyes and lips parted in frightened pleasure he had sat opposite to him at the club, the red candleshades staining to a richer rose the wakening wonder of his face.
0	Concerning whom then did he speak?
0	Wilde himself, in a rhetorical period, seems to have contemplated the possibility of his prose drama for a musical theme.
0	A harsh word would ruin it.
0	He was heart-sick at leaving home.
0	You must not spoil it.
0	I hope to be at least a month with my friends, and to gain peace and balance, and a less troubled heart, and a sweeter mood.
0	Then he threw his head back and laughed.
0	* * * * * So the Star-Child was brought up with the children of the Woodcutter, and sat at the same board with them, and was their playmate.
0	It is no more than that.
0	It would be terrible if the dead came back.
0	Often have I heard the Tetrarch talk of him.
0	But let me get to the end of the passage: ‘Art finds her own perfection within, and not outside of, herself.
0	Wherefore I praise thee not for this that thou hast done, but I bid thee ride back to the Palace and make thy face glad, and put on the raiment that beseemeth a king, and with the crown of gold I will crown thee, and the sceptre of pearl will I place in thy hand.
0	You look too much at her.
0	As for the Church, I cannot conceive anything better for the culture of a country than the presence in it of a body of men whose duty it is to believe in the supernatural, to perform daily miracles, and to keep alive that mythopoeic faculty which is so essential for the imagination.
0	But my dear Lady Bracknell, the matter is entirely in your own hands.
0	You had better not let them see you: you bring unpleasant memories.
0	Jack looks perfectly furious, and goes to the door.]
0	In opposition to their tithing of each separate day into the fixed routine of prescribed duties, as they tithe mint and rue, he preached the enormous importance of living completely for the moment.
0	I will not have her dance.
0	Oh, don’t be so solemn about it, or I shall be obliged to leave a card on you.
0	A confession would be of no use.
0	In the present case, what is it that has really happened?
0	It is a drag upon you.
0	Are you prepared to prove that?
0	It shows a wide-spread interest in my health.
0	The Garden at the Manor House, Woolton.
0	And what prizes did you get, Mrs. Cheveley?
0	A letter addressed to her husband!
0	It was between ten and eleven o’clock at night.
0	Oh, I'm a little anxious about poor Bunbury, that is all.
0	It is very, very helpful.
0	Man will kill himself by overwork in order to secure property, and really, considering the enormous advantages that property brings, one is hardly surprised.
0	"That is what I have come to learn, Uncle George.
0	"A man can be happy with any woman, as long as he does not love her."
0	Having sent off Washington and the two men to scour the district, he ran home, and despatched telegrams to all the police inspectors in the county, telling them to look out for a little girl who had been kidnapped by tramps or gipsies.
0	It will not be at discord.
0	I don’t think there is a woman in the world who would not be a little flattered if one made love to her.
0	You people who go in for being consistent have just as many moods as others have.
0	I am greatly distressed, Aunt Augusta, about there being no cucumbers, not even for ready money.
0	Dorian Gray listened, open-eyed and wondering.
0	For just as the body absorbs things of all kinds, things common and unclean no less than those that the priest or a vision has cleansed, and converts them into swiftness or strength, into the play of beautiful muscles and the moulding of fair flesh, into the curves and colours of the hair, the lips, the eye; so the soul in its turn has its nutritive functions also, and can transform into noble moods of thought and passions of high import what in itself is base, cruel and degrading; nay, more, may find in these its most august modes of assertion, and can often reveal itself most perfectly through what was intended to desecrate or destroy.
0	To-day he seemed to see her again, as he had seen her first at the Castle of Fontainebleau, when he was but fifteen years of age, and she still younger.
0	The cold waves dashed over her cold breasts, and the salt glistened upon her eyelids.
0	Here and there he is distinctly vulgar in expression, and he is always lacking in the self-restraint of the true artist.
0	It certainly was a marvellous bull-fight, and much nicer, the Infanta thought, than the real bull-fight that she had been brought to see at Seville, on the occasion of the visit of the Duke of Parma to her father.
0	This is going to be my masterpiece.
0	Motionless, and as one in a dream, sat Dorian Gray, gazing at her.
0	Merriman, order the dog-cart at once.
0	By the way, what magazine do you intend it for?
0	"I must put it into practice."
0	If it were only the other way!
0	"Dorian, you should have understood.
0	"Thanks, Basil," answered Dorian Gray, pressing his hand.
0	I was afraid you were going to say good-bye to some of your friends--to Tom Hardy, who gave you that hideous pipe, or Ned Langton, who makes fun of you for smoking it.
0	The man writhed like a trampled snake, and a red foam bubbled from his lips.
0	And there is worse behind.
0	Yes; the usual palm tree.
0	They brought their types with them, and Life with her keen imitative faculty set herself to supply the master with models.
0	I haven’t listened to him for years.
0	[_Standing up stage with_ LORD DARLINGTON.]
0	... You have a wonderfully beautiful face, Mr. Gray.
0	There are possibly some journalists who take a real pleasure in publishing horrible things, or who, being poor, look to scandals as forming a sort of permanent basis for an income.
0	Faithfulness is to the emotional life what consistency is to the life of the intellect--simply a confession of failure.
0	She has been to several houses—not to houses where you would go, I admit, but still to houses where women who are in what is called Society nowadays do go.
0	Then she peered all round, and listened.
0	It is extraordinary what astounding mistakes clever women make.
0	His nature had developed like a flower, had borne blossoms of scarlet flame.
0	"Come, let us sit down and try what the new _chef_ here is like, and then you will tell us how it all came about."
0	We must keep to criticism.
0	You are really an admirable tonic, much better than what Sir Andrew prescribes for me.
0	[LORD GORING _goes into the smoking-room_.
0	Surely this should be to thee a day of joy, and not a day of abasement.’ ‘Shall Joy wear what Grief has fashioned?’ said the young King.
0	It is a privilege to meet _him_.
0	how dear you _have_ been always.
0	"Bring it in, Mr. Hubbard, please," he said, wearily, turning round.
0	It is hardly a matter that she could be allowed to arrange for herself .
0	“The next day he was nailing up some honeysuckle against the porch, when he heard the Miller’s voice calling to him from the road.
0	*       *       *       *       * SCENE.--_A great terrace in the Palace of Herod, set above the banqueting-hall.
0	They retain their egotism, and add to it many other egos.
0	If they are not married, they should be looking after a wife.
0	He could not keep his eyes off her, and seemed to dance for her alone, and when at the close of the performance, remembering how she had seen the great ladies of the Court throw bouquets to Caffarelli, the famous Italian treble, whom the Pope had sent from his own chapel to Madrid that he might cure the King’s melancholy by the sweetness of his voice, she took out of her hair the beautiful white rose, and partly for a jest and partly to tease the Camerera, threw it to him across the arena with her sweetest smile, he took the whole matter quite seriously, and pressing the flower to his rough coarse lips he put his hand upon his heart, and sank on one knee before her, grinning from ear to ear, and with his little bright eyes sparkling with pleasure.
0	I shall have to pay him something, of course.
0	Even to the half of my kingdom.
0	Please don't touch the cucumber sandwiches.
0	But the muffins are the same.
0	I don’t intend to grow perfect at all.
0	The warm air seemed laden with spices.
0	And if you are ever in trouble, Lady Chiltern, trust me absolutely, and I will help you in every way I can.
0	"It is rather late, and, as you have to dress, you had better lose no time.
0	There was a gloom over him.
0	“How hungry we are!” they said.
0	Style largely depends on the way the chin is worn.
0	I hear it no longer.
0	Nothing remains then but the recollection of a pleasure, or the luxury of a regret.
0	The very sun and moon seem taken from us.
0	Do you mean to say you have had my cigarette case all this time?
0	Profane not the temple of the Lord God.
0	You have a curious influence over me.
0	The subject is not so abstruse as I thought it was.
0	It is not merely that I paint from him, draw from him, sketch from him.
0	The fact is that she is in this unfortunate position.
0	It is your will, not mine.
0	"I can never sit to you again, Basil.
0	And, though at present my friends may find it a hard thing to believe, it is true none the less, that for them living in freedom and idleness and comfort it is more easy to learn the lessons of humility than it is for me, who begin the day by going down on my knees and washing the floor of my cell.
0	On the other hand, it contains several clever caricatures, and a heap of delightful quotations, and Green’s philosophy very pleasantly sugars the somewhat bitter pill of the author’s fiction.
0	On and on we go, climbing the marvellous stair, and the stars become larger than their wont, and the song of the kings grows faint, and at length we reach the seven trees of gold and the garden of the Earthly Paradise.
0	Callous, concentrated on evil, with stained mind, and soul hungry for rebellion, Dorian Gray hastened on, quickening his step as he went, but as he darted aside into a dim archway, that had served him often as a short cut to the ill-famed place where he was going, he felt himself suddenly seized from behind, and before he had time to defend himself, he was thrust back against the wall, with a brutal hand round his throat.
0	‘My funny little dwarf is sulking,’ she cried, ‘you must wake him up, and tell him to dance for me.’ They smiled at each other, and sauntered in, and Don Pedro stooped down, and slapped the Dwarf on the cheek with his embroidered glove.
0	The ice congealed about our heart melts.
0	‘He combed out the soft fringes of his tunic with his long pointed nails.
0	For, up to the time of the unfortunate triumph of the Philistines in 1645, the chapels and cathedrals of England were the great national museums of archæology, and in them were kept the armour and attire of the heroes of English history.
0	I cannot do what you ask me.
0	I wish I could say as much for myself.
0	Once or twice every month during the winter, and on each Wednesday evening while the season lasted, he would throw open to the world his beautiful house and have the most celebrated musicians of the day to charm his guests with the wonders of their art.
0	I am too much in love.
0	Once, in boyish mockery of Narcissus, he had kissed, or feigned to kiss, those painted lips that now smiled so cruelly at him.
0	_He sinks in a chair_, _wrapt in thought_.
0	I know not who she is.
0	At Cambridge he had spent a great deal of his time working in the laboratory, and had taken a good class in the Natural Science Tripos of his year.
0	This is not the moment for German scepticism.
0	"Mr. Dorian Gray's, sir," answered the policeman.
0	And by the way, Harry, talking about silly marriages, what is this humbug your father tells me about Dartmoor wanting to marry an American?
0	[_Moving slowly away from him_, _and looking at him with startled eyes_.]
0	Why had such a soul been given to him?
0	No: the emotions will not make us cosmopolitan, any more than the greed for gain could do so.
0	She seemed to taunt me with it.
0	There is a very large hole in it, and the corn will all get damp if I don’t stop it up.
0	It is a commercial transaction.
0	He was your father, and a gentleman.
0	He had nearly swooned at what Lord Henry had said in a chance mood of cynical jesting.
0	This, however, is, of course, the result of our property system and our system of competition.
0	So he gave me to understand.
0	And this is their custom with all merchants as long as they tarry in the city.
0	On reaching his room he entirely broke down, and became a prey to the most violent agitation.
0	"I wish I could trust myself," said Lord Henry, laughing.
0	He never read the mad letter you wrote to him!
0	"I prefer the mistakes of to-day," she answered.
0	"Dorian says she is beautiful, and he is not often wrong about things of that kind.
0	I am a great favourite at Court; in fact, the Prince and Princess were married yesterday in my honour.
0	He was not worried by opinions.
0	I saw my chance, it is true, and took it.
0	And what is Lord Goring?
0	Modern journalism may be said to owe almost as much to him as to any man of the early part of this century.
0	My wife was very plain, never had my ruffs properly starched, and knew nothing about cookery.
0	That is all over now.
0	Gertrude.’ [LORD GORING _rushes to the bureau and takes up the envelope_, _finds is empty_, _and turns round_.]
0	one might fancy a bird, a huge black bird that hovers over the terrace.
0	He can pass from his synthetic impression of the work of art as a whole, to an analysis or exposition of the work itself, and in this lower sphere, as I hold it to be, there are many delightful things to be said and done.
0	There were poisons so subtle that to know their properties one had to sicken of them.
0	I don't know what I expected, but I went out and wandered eastward, soon losing my way in a labyrinth of grimy streets and black grassless squares.
0	And try also to get rid of personal property.
0	Selfishness always aims at creating around it an absolute uniformity of type.
0	"Don't go to the theatre to-night, Dorian," said Hallward.
0	It had lost an ideal.
0	There are always new attitudes for the mind, and new points of view.
0	I—saw it, I opened it.
0	It was in this spirit, and with this mode of love, that the saints knelt down to wash the feet of the poor, or stooped to kiss the leper on the cheek.
0	"Only when one is young," she answered.
0	He believes he has a brilliant future before him.
0	The spirit of an age may be best expressed in the abstract ideal arts, for the spirit itself is abstract and ideal.
0	Yet, after that they had laughed they became sad, for they remembered their poverty, and one of them said to the other, ‘Why did we make merry, seeing that life is for the rich, and not for such as we are?
0	Self-denial is simply a method by which man arrests his progress, and self-sacrifice a survival of the mutilation of the savage, part of that old worship of pain which is so terrible a factor in the history of the world, and which even now makes its victims day by day, and has its altars in the land.
0	One can always tell from a woman’s bonnet whether she has got a memory or not.
0	"Let me get you some orchids, Duchess," cried Dorian, starting to his feet and walking down the conservatory.
0	Was it really true that one could never change?
0	Who on earth writes to him on pink paper?
0	Are you not even touched by the tears that the Roman poet tells us are part of its essence.
0	"Paradoxes are all very well in their way...." rejoined the baronet.
0	I lost one illusion last night.
0	Or did you say you had done more than one?"
0	My dear boy, you must not dream of going.
0	I have written to tell him to come here at four o’clock this afternoon.
0	Margaret, I thought Mrs. Erlynne was a woman more sinned against than sinning, as the phrase goes.
0	I believe there is no society of any kind in the Colonies--nothing that I would call society--so when you have made your fortune, you must come back and assert yourself in London."
0	I thought that the person who was waiting in that room to see me was yourself.
0	Of course I don't know if the thing would bother you in any way, or if you think I am a little too old now.
0	Outside the family circle, papa, I am glad to say, is entirely unknown.
0	[_Detains him by touching his arm with her fan_, _and keeping it there while she is talking_.]
0	To excuse themselves they will try and shelter under the shield of him who made Prospero the magician, and gave him Caliban and Ariel as his servants, who heard the Tritons blowing their horns round the coral reefs of the Enchanted Isle, and the fairies singing to each other in a wood near Athens, who led the phantom kings in dim procession across the misty Scottish heath, and hid Hecate in a cave with the weird sisters.
0	For I have suffered much to find thee.’ ‘Nay,’ said the Star-Child, ‘but thou art too foul to look at, and rather would I kiss the adder or the toad than thee.’ So the woman rose up, and went away into the forest weeping bitterly, and when the Star-Child saw that she had gone, he was glad, and ran back to his playmates that he might play with them.
0	A faint echo of his love came back to him.
0	It was said that the woman was very beautiful.
0	You dear simple little thing!
0	Dorian Gray falls in love with a beautiful girl who acts Juliet, and proposes to marry her.
0	It sits like a dead thing smeared with gold.
0	What if it should be stolen?
0	I shall show it to you if you come with me."
0	I certainly wouldn't let Jack buy my outfit.
0	He rushed forward and seized it in his arms, when, to his horror, the head slipped off and rolled on the floor, the body assumed a recumbent posture, and he found himself clasping a white dimity bed-curtain, with a sweeping-brush, a kitchen cleaver, and a hollow turnip lying at his feet!
0	Except that no son of mine should ever take the side of the Puritans: that is always an error.
0	None enters by this door but the King.’ And his face flushed with anger, and he said to them, ‘I am the King,’ and waved their halberts aside and passed in.
0	"I didn't say I liked it, Harry.
0	They are types fixed for all time.
0	Our grandmothers painted in order to try and talk brilliantly.
0	I have known strange errors in that publication.
0	And on the third day he came to the other side of the forest and went down into the plain.
0	We would have spoken to each other without any introduction.
0	I hate her now more than ever.
0	Did you know her well?
0	But you have just said it was perfectly heartless to eat muffins.
0	If there is no one there why should I not look in that room?
0	It involves endless claims upon one, endless attention to business, endless bother.
0	And in the morning he rose up, and plucked some bitter berries from the trees and ate them, and took his way through the great wood, weeping sorely.
0	Well, we are not going to praise her.
0	He possessed a gorgeous cope of crimson silk and gold-thread damask, figured with a repeating pattern of golden pomegranates set in six-petalled formal blossoms, beyond which on either side was the pine-apple device wrought in seed-pearls.
0	I will not have my daughter dance while he is continually crying out.
0	To the great poet, there is only one method of music—his own.
0	There are three kinds of despots.
0	[_Winces_, _then rises slowly and goes over to table where his hat and gloves are_.
0	I have not the courage.
0	"That you may censure it the better."
0	You have not realized how I have developed.
0	A little lacking in femininity, Jane.
0	But when the children saw him they were so frightened that they all ran away, and the garden became winter again.
0	Why, it hasn't been opened for nearly five years--not since his lordship died."
0	He never shall read it.
0	Men have gone to heaven for smaller things than that.
0	I didn’t believe any of it LADY HUNSTANTON.
0	You remember that I spoke of the critic as being in his own way as creative as the artist, whose work, indeed, may be merely of value in so far as it gives to the critic a suggestion for some new mood of thought and feeling which he can realise with equal, or perhaps greater, distinction of form, and, through the use of a fresh medium of expression, make differently beautiful and more perfect.
0	One had to pay over and over again, indeed.
0	‘But Life soon shattered the perfection of the form.
0	We have been too lax.
0	And the angel of the Lord shall smite him.
0	"Well, I found myself seated in a horrid little private box, with a vulgar drop-scene staring me in the face.
0	It was his last romance.
0	His style is chaos illumined by flashes of lightning.
0	They felt that it inevitably makes people ugly, and they were perfectly right.
0	[LADY WINDERMERE _bursts into tears and buries her face in her hands_.]
0	He shall have a scandal.
0	Two green-and-white butterflies fluttered past them, and in the pear-tree at the corner of the garden a thrush began to sing.
0	"To be good is to be in harmony with one's self," he replied, touching the thin stem of his glass with his pale, fine-pointed fingers.
0	Shallow speakers and shallow thinkers in pulpits and on platforms often talk about the world’s worship of pleasure, and whine against it.
0	* * * * * And at noon he remembered how one of his companions, who was a gatherer of samphire, had told him of a certain young Witch who dwelt in a cave at the head of the bay and was very cunning in her witcheries.
0	This will be a great gain—a gain, in fact, of incalculable value.
0	But the little Dwarf cared nothing for all this magnificence.
0	"Yes," murmured Lord Henry, settling his button-hole in his coat; "and when they grow older they know it.
0	_After a little time_ LADY CHILTERN _returns to look for him_.]
0	We have lost the abstract sense of beauty.
0	We all know how you are run after in London.
0	Lying for the sake of a monthly salary is of course well known in Fleet Street, and the profession of a political leader-writer is not without its advantages.
0	Yes, but that does not account for the fact that your small Aunt Cecily, who lives at Tunbridge Wells, calls you her dear uncle.
0	The sentence now passed on him was to a man of his culture a form of death.
0	Nothing seems to us changed.
0	I can’t let you think that I am going to accept this sacrifice.
0	But only Christ could have said both, and so summed up life perfectly for us.
0	Bottom is in homespun, Lysander is distinguished from Oberon by his wearing an Athenian dress, and Launce has holes in his boots.
0	It would make him smile.
0	Once he thought he heard something call, and stopped; but it was only the baying of a dog from the Red Farm, and he went on, muttering strange sixteenth-century curses, and ever and anon brandishing the rusty dagger in the midnight air.
0	Mother, how can you talk like that?
0	[_Rising and going to him_.]
0	But what horrid clothes you have got on!
0	So light was her footfall, and so deep his melancholy, that he was not aware of her presence till she spoke to him.
0	The novice looked out through the wicket, and when he saw who it was, he drew back the latch and said to him, ‘Enter.’ And the young Fisherman passed in, and knelt down on the sweet-smelling rushes of the floor, and cried to the Priest who was reading out of the Holy Book and said to him, ‘Father, I am in love with one of the Sea-folk, and my soul hindereth me from having my desire.
0	The rich would have spoken on the value of thrift, and the idle grown eloquent over the dignity of labour.
0	Criticism is no more to be judged by any low standard of imitation or resemblance than is the work of poet or sculptor.
0	I hadn't been there since her poor husband's death.
0	"You told me a month ago that you would never exhibit it," he cried.
0	He accordingly went to Boulogne on a visit to the father of the young lady in question, and while he was there induced him to insure his life with the Pelican Company for £3000.
0	Let the war captains pierce her with their swords, let them crush her beneath their shields.
0	Really, now that the House of Commons is trying to become useful, it does a great deal of harm.
0	The death of Basil Hallward seemed very little to him.
0	My dear Lord Illingworth, what do you mean?
0	I resolved to ignore them as far as possible: to treat them, that is to say, as modes of imperfection.
0	We tremble, and come forth to re-behold the stars.
0	One thing, however, Ernest, it can do for us.
0	They matter far too much.
0	This is why it is worth carrying out, and that is why one proposes it.
0	"With an actress," said Dorian Gray, blushing.
0	They are like black lakes troubled by fantastic moons.... Do you think he will speak again?
0	The security of society lies in custom and unconscious instinct, and the basis of the stability of society, as a healthy organism, is the complete absence of any intelligence amongst its members.
0	And the trees were so glad to have the children back again that they had covered themselves with blossoms, and were waving their arms gently above the children’s heads.
0	At the end of the room there was a little staircase, leading to a darkened chamber.
0	All night long she sang, and the thorn went deeper and deeper into her breast, and her life-blood ebbed away from her.
0	Still, Nature irritates one more when she does things of that kind.
0	"I have no wish," he said, "to do the ghost any personal injury, and I must say that, considering the length of time he has been in the house, I don't think it is at all polite to throw pillows at him,"--a very just remark, at which, I am sorry to say, the twins burst into shouts of laughter.
0	I have moonstones that change when the moon changes, and are wan when they see the sun.
0	Memory, like a horrible malady, was eating his soul away.
0	The floor was covered with ochre-coloured sawdust, trampled here and there into mud, and stained with dark rings of spilled liquor.
0	They always do find us bad!
0	This results not merely from Life’s imitative instinct, but from the fact that the self-conscious aim of Life is to find expression, and that Art offers it certain beautiful forms through which it may realise that energy.
0	The last night she played--the night you saw her--she acted badly because she had known the reality of love.
0	For 'pity and terror' there is nothing in the entire cycle of Greek tragedy to touch it.
0	And at noon the Student opened his window and looked out.
0	That is the only proper basis for family life.
0	She covered the valley with her wings, and no man was left alive.
0	You sold a Cabinet secret for money!
0	[_Moves towards door of ball-room_.]
0	When the sound of their footsteps had died away, Dorian locked the door and put the key in his pocket.
0	Men can be analysed, women .
0	I suppose a man may eat his own muffins in his own garden.
0	are they at all better?
0	Oh, pray don’t trouble, Lady Chiltern.
0	How beautiful is the Princess Salomé to-night!
0	I heard of you the other night at Lady Rufford’s dancing till four o’clock in the morning!
0	You will call me sister, will you not?
0	“You have rightly chosen,” said God, “for in my garden of Paradise this little bird shall sing for evermore, and in my city of gold the Happy Prince shall praise me.”                 [Picture: Decorative graphic of two birds] The Nightingale and the Rose.
0	Aunt Caroline, allow me to introduce Mrs. Erlynne.
0	She was silent for a few moments, and a look of terror came over her face.
0	Salomé, Salomé, dance for me.
0	I have only just met him."
0	Here, from the fading canvas, smiled Lady Elizabeth Devereux, in her gauze hood, pearl stomacher, and pink slashed sleeves.
0	It is one of the many annoyances to which I have never been subjected.
0	There is no objection, I admit, to an aunt being a small aunt, but why an aunt, no matter what her size may be, should call her own nephew her uncle, I can't quite make out.
0	What you really are is a Bunburyist.
0	Dear Caroline, how kind of you!
0	"It is the face of my soul."
0	_The action of the play takes place within twenty-four hours_, _beginning on a Tuesday afternoon at five o’clock_, _and ending the next day at_                _Lessee and Manager_: _Mr.
0	I don't think you will require neckties.
0	LORD GORING _looks on amused_.
0	It is the people who don’t know how to play with it who get burned up.
0	As regards the other subject, the Relation of the Artistic Life to Conduct, it will no doubt seem strange to you that I should select it.
0	"I saw something in it," he answered, "something that seemed to me very curious."
0	I have observed that, LORD GORING.
0	I feel certain of it.
0	You know what the result will be.
0	_On turning round he sees_ LORD ILLINGWORTH’S _glove lying on the floor_, _and picks it up_.]
0	"But I didn't say he was married.
0	They dominate us, and defy scepticism.
0	The murder had been simply the madness of a moment.
0	Such offers are not repeated.
0	That, my dear Algy, is the whole truth pure and simple.
0	Brutus used madness as a cloak to conceal the sword of his purpose, the dagger of his will, but the Hamlet madness is a mere mask for the hiding of weakness.
0	But then it is only the Philistine who seeks to estimate a personality by the vulgar test of production.
0	There are some who say that they have hidden themselves in the mountains, but I do not believe it.
0	It seems to me that with the development of the critical spirit we shall be able to realise, not merely our own lives, but the collective life of the race, and so to make ourselves absolutely modern, in the true meaning of the word modernity.
0	Yet, when her arms were flung round his neck, and her fingers strayed through his hair, he softened and kissed her with real affection.
0	As a natural consequence it has begun to create a spirit of revolt.
0	He had a bag in his hand.
0	For in art there is no such thing as a universal truth.
0	Was that one of the things that life had in store?
0	Fortunately for myself, I don’t care.
0	It makes one look old.
0	He told me right out before everybody.
0	They left the room together.
0	No, you must keep your good looks.
0	The moment she touched actual life, she marred it, and it marred her, and so she passed away.
0	_Then stops_, _and looks at_ LORD GORING.]
0	Are you in favour of women taking part in politics, Mr. Kettle?
0	I know the age better than you do, though you will prate about it so tediously.
0	Dear Lord Illingworth is quite hopeless, Lady Stutfield.
0	It is horrid of you!"
0	"People like you--the wilful sunbeams of life--don't commit crimes, Dorian.
0	In spite of their endeavours, the truth will out.
0	Now, Gerald, that is pure laziness on your part.
0	"My dear Basil, how do I know?"
0	You and he were inseparable.
0	We are overrun by a set of people who, when poet or painter passes away, arrive at the house along with the undertaker, and forget that their one duty is to behave as mutes.
0	For while under the present system a very large number of people can lead lives of a certain amount of freedom and expression and happiness, under an industrial-barrack system, or a system of economic tyranny, nobody would be able to have any such freedom at all.
0	They should both represent man at his highest.
0	There may have been fogs for centuries in London.
0	My father tells me that even I have faults.
0	Who cares whether Mr. Ruskin’s views on Turner are sound or not?
0	What a tedious, practical subject for you to talk about, Mrs. Cheveley!
0	Or if it be necessary, then what is it that I have loved!
0	The idea is grotesque and irreligious!
0	He seemed weary, and was leaning back toying in a listless manner with the pommel of his dagger.
0	It's a habit bores have.
0	You will find that the Athenian ladies laced tightly, wore high-heeled shoes, dyed their hair yellow, painted and rouged their faces, and were exactly like any silly fashionable or fallen creature of our own day.
0	My dear fellow, what on earth should we men do going about with purity and innocence?
0	Oh, why will parents always appear at the wrong time?
0	Yes:  that blind, slow-breathing thing crawled no more, and horrible thoughts, time being dead, raced nimbly on in front, and dragged a hideous future from its grave, and showed it to him.
0	The breath of the wind of its wings is terrible.
0	They can do etchings that have the brilliancy of epigrams, pastels that are as fascinating as paradoxes, and as for their portraits, whatever the commonplace may say against them, no one can deny that they possess that unique and wonderful charm which belongs to works of pure fiction.
0	A man is called affected, nowadays, if he dresses as he likes to dress.
0	I absolutely refuse to do anything in the matter.
0	It is not quite their fault.
0	And when was the engagement actually settled?
0	What should he do if Basil Hallward came and asked to look at his own picture?
0	Don’t stir, I am merely going to finish my flowers.
0	Kind souls, what, weep you when you but behold     Our Cæsar’s vesture wounded?
0	[_Goes over to sofa with_ LADY WINDERMERE, _and sits down beside her_.
0	But it is not enough that a dress should be accurate; it must be also appropriate to the stature and appearance of the actor, and to his supposed condition, as well as to his necessary action in the play.
0	I have amethysts of two kinds, one that is black like wine, and one that is red like wine which has been coloured with water.
0	I think I must go and lie down.
0	I thank you for saving me from him last night.
0	And when his wife opened the door and saw that her husband had returned safe to her, she put her arms round his neck and kissed him, and took from his back the bundle of faggots, and brushed the snow off his boots, and bade him come in.
0	My dear fellow, the way you flirt with Gwendolen is perfectly disgraceful.
0	Pray do as I tell you.
0	The voice of that man maddens me.
0	“Delightful!” he cried, “I shall go on like this for ever.
0	Darlington has been moralising and talking about the purity of love, and that sort of thing, and he has got some woman in his rooms all the time.
0	A historian who disregarded it would give us a most inaccurate picture of the time, and a dramatist who did not avail himself of it would miss a most vital element in producing an illusionist effect.
0	The painter bit his lip and walked over, cup in hand, to the picture.
0	My dear Robert, of course.
0	Round green emeralds were ranged in order upon thin plates of ivory, and in one corner were silk bags filled, some with turquoise-stones, and others with beryls.
0	"You will some day, surely?"
0	And they passed into the dining-room.
0	Why inquire too closely into it?
0	The Bishop, who was present, was much struck by some of the analogies I drew.
0	It would be horribly selfish if it wanted all the other flowers in the garden to be both red and roses.
0	An acquaintance that begins with a compliment is sure to develop into a real friendship.
0	I can fancy a person doing a wonderful act of self-sacrifice, doing it spontaneously, recklessly, nobly—and afterwards finding out that it costs too much.
0	And they who possess it not have not Wisdom.
0	I have had four wonderful adventures this morning; four and a half, in fact.
0	He used poetry as a medium for writing in prose.
0	He saw it all again.
0	But I was afraid of intruding upon a sorrow that I could not lighten.
0	He would never again tempt innocence.
0	"To-night she is Imogen," he answered, "and to-morrow night she will be Juliet."
0	No; but because she knows that you are a good woman—and that if she comes here once she will have a chance of a happier, a surer life than she has had.
0	But you have not told me yet what makes you honour London so suddenly.
0	I don’t think any of them were for good conduct.
0	I am old enough to be your father, Gerald.
0	What a lovely night it is, Mrs. Arbuthnot.
0	And this is the box in which I keep all your dear letters.
0	Dorian heard him first stopping on the pavement and then hurrying after him.
0	Its monstrous wings seem to wheel in the leaden air around me.
0	But it did, though—it was most unfortunate.
0	What harm is there in a kiss?
0	Out of doors one becomes abstract and impersonal.
0	It must be the ghost."
0	You are Robert’s greatest friend.
0	You see, if one plays good music, people don't listen, and if one plays bad music people don't talk.
0	What conceited ass has been impertinent enough to dare to propose to you before I had proposed to you?
0	One should always play fairly .
0	"Still, the East End is a very important problem," remarked Sir Thomas with a grave shake of the head.
0	"Being adored is a nuisance.
0	However badly he may have behaved to you in the past he is still your brother.
0	They are a snare that every sensible man would like to be caught in.
0	It was really not a bit lonely in the forest.
0	And so, try to so shape your life that external things will not harm you.
0	To-night, for the first time in my life, I saw through the hollowness, the sham, the silliness of the empty pageant in which I had always played.
0	"What nonsense people talk about happy marriages!"
0	The Army Lists of the last forty years are here.
0	Aren’t you coming to the music-room?
0	I met Lady Gwendolen, Harry's sister, for the first time.
0	"You wrecked the life of Sibyl Vane," was the answer, "and Sibyl Vane was my sister.
0	Every impulse that we strive to strangle broods in the mind and poisons us.
0	I must learn how to be cheerful and happy.
0	That is the difference between men and women.
0	You were bought in the market.
0	Gertrude, truth is a very complex thing, and politics is a very complex business.
0	We men know life too early.
0	There was nothing in the world so white as thy body.
0	We have to go to others for that!
0	He hated to be separated from the picture that was such a part of his life, and was also afraid that during his absence some one might gain access to the room, in spite of the elaborate bars that he had caused to be placed upon the door.
0	by the way, Lane, I see from your book that on Thursday night, when Lord Shoreman and Mr. Worthing were dining with me, eight bottles of champagne are entered as having been consumed.
0	"I quite forget what I said," smiled Lord Henry.
0	Who can calculate the orbit of his own soul?
0	It is, of course, a ridiculous word to apply to a work of art.
0	So pale was she that as she drove through the streets all the people wondered.
0	The longer one studies life and literature, the more strongly one feels that behind everything that is wonderful stands the individual, and that it is not the moment that makes the man, but the man who creates the age.
0	To spiritualize one's age--that is something worth doing.
0	Dorian shook his head, and a look of annoyance passed over his face at the mention of the word "inquest."
0	Do you think, Caroline, that Lord Illingworth is interested in the Housing of the Poor?
0	Though she will never repent, but will stick fast in her abominations; bid her come, for the fan of the Lord is in His hand.
0	I know not,’ said the little Mermaid: ‘the Sea-folk have no souls.’  And she sank down into the deep, looking wistfully at him.
0	More than that: it is the means by which one alters one's past.
0	amongst the crowd that pressed round the soldiers, he saw the beggar-woman who was his mother, and at her side stood the leper, who had sat by the road.
0	But let them find Him, and tell Him from me, I will not allow him to raise the dead!
0	"I can't tell you, Harry," he answered sadly.
0	Some of them cleft the rocks with great axes; others grabbled in the sand.
0	The consciousness of being hunted, snared, tracked down, had begun to dominate him.
0	One of our most charming painters went recently to the Land of the Chrysanthemum in the foolish hope of seeing the Japanese.
0	You know the sort of things ministers say in cases of this kind.
0	You should have come on there.
0	A classical allusion merely, drawn from the Pagan authors.
0	To morals belong the lower and less intellectual spheres.
0	"You are ill, I suppose.
0	She wiped her eyes with shaking hands.
0	When we enter it, we starve amidst the chill mathematics of thought.
0	I went into the House immediately.
0	SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _looks up_.]
0	[Makes a note in her book.]
0	Yes, but it's hereditary, my dear fellow.
0	It isn't at all a becoming language.
0	Is there no way by which I can get it?” “There is a way,” answered the Tree; “but it is so terrible that I dare not tell it to you.” “Tell it to me,” said the Nightingale, “I am not afraid.” “If you want a red rose,” said the Tree, “you must build it out of music by moonlight, and stain it with your own heart’s-blood.
0	You see what she thinks of you.
0	Something seemed to tell him that the body was there, and he hurried to the door and put his hand upon the latch.
0	We do not understand each other.
0	I hope you have not been leading a double life, pretending to be wicked and being really good all the time.
0	You are quite out of sorts."
0	Wasting your time as usual, I suppose?
0	Only that is spiritual which makes its own form.
0	A dog barked as they went by, and far away in the darkness some wandering sea-gull screamed.
0	You don’t really know anything about her, and you’re always talking scandal against her.
0	But I let myself be lured into long spells of senseless and sensual ease.
0	In fact, it was music that had first brought him and Dorian Gray together--music and that indefinable attraction that Dorian seemed to be able to exercise whenever he wished--and, indeed, exercised often without being conscious of it.
0	The Greeks were a nation of artists, because they were spared the sense of the infinite.
0	But I intend to crush them.
0	Then all that was left of him was the stick, and this fell down on the back of a Goose who was taking a walk by the side of the ditch.
0	What one had felt dimly, through instinct, about art, is intellectually and emotionally realised with perfect clearness of vision and absolute intensity of apprehension.
0	Therefore I pray thee come with me, for over the whole world have I wandered in search of thee.
0	May I have the honour of taking you down to supper, Comtesse?
0	How horrid you have been!
0	a genius in the daytime and a beauty at night!
0	Whatsoever you desire I will give it you, even to the half of my kingdom, if you will but dance for me.
0	But had the man worn a costume and spoken a language different from our own, had he lived in imperial Rome, or at the time of the Italian Renaissance, or in Spain in the seventeenth century, or in any land or any century but this century and this land, we would be quite able to arrive at a perfectly unprejudiced estimate of his position and value.
0	I am sure that it was a crime against an unknown God.
0	Suddenly I determined to leave her as flowerlike as I had found her."
0	They must be subordinate always to the general motive of the play.
0	[_In his most earnest manner_.]
0	Trouble not thyself, but come with me to another city.
0	On this point, as indeed on all points, I am firm.
0	It rules us, we do not rule it.
0	It had perhaps served often as a pall for the dead.
0	‘Thou art cruel,’ she cried; ‘thou art cruel.
0	In sublimity of soul there is no contagion.
0	I only war against one woman, against Gertrude Chiltern.
0	Now it seems to me that love of some kind is the only possible explanation of the extraordinary amount of suffering that there is in the world.
0	You have all the methods of science."
0	There is only one person now that could be said to be in any danger.
0	You are really wonderful, Dorian.
0	I should think you could easily spare it for that time.
0	"I never tilt against beauty," he said, with a wave of his hand.
0	"What o'clock is it, Victor?"
0	I have often observed that in married households the champagne is rarely of a first-rate brand.
0	"It is one of the qualities in them that I admire most.
0	Simply because otherwise he would be unable to realise what he had done.
0	_Morning-room of Lord Windermere’s house in Carlton House Terrace_.
0	Nobody ever commits a crime without doing something stupid.
0	I want to speak to you for a moment.
0	[_Goes to the door_, _and opens it_.]
0	Then shivering, though the atmosphere of the room was terribly hot, he drew himself up and glanced at the clock.
0	The black sea came nearer, and the white foam moaned like a leper.
0	I lay down beside it, and with my pale fingers I touched the broad leaves.
0	I haven’t a word to say.
0	a little out of practice this morning; and besides, I have to be going now.
0	"And you have sat splendidly to-day.
0	From the field in which he thought that he had sown thorns, we have gathered our vintage, and the fig-tree that he planted for our pleasure is as barren as the thistle, and more bitter.
0	Under what conditions, and by what means, this temperament is engendered in race or individual, we will not discuss at present.
0	My name is Laetitia, Doctor.
0	Let me know the worst.
0	"That is all nonsense," cried Washington Otis; "Pinkerton's Champion Stain Remover and Paragon Detergent will clean it up in no time," and before the terrified housekeeper could interfere, he had fallen upon his knees, and was rapidly scouring the floor with a small stick of what looked like a black cosmetic.
0	The true dramatist aims first at what is characteristic, and no more desires that all his personages should be beautifully attired than he desires that they should all have beautiful natures or speak beautiful English.
0	"I don't want it put straight, Leaf.
0	You have a child, Lady Windermere.
0	Dorian glanced at him hurriedly and frowned.
0	I want a photograph of you, Lady Windermere—would you give me one?
0	It is not because of them that you remain.
0	My darling Cecily, I think there must be some slight error.
0	He bowed his head in prayer, and the priests in their stiff copes crept away from the altar.
0	I know not how to lie.
0	I am afraid some of this clever talk may have shocked her a little.
0	And now may I walk through your beautiful house?
0	To tell it is to live through it all again.
0	The selenite waxed and waned with the moon, and the meloceus, that discovers thieves, could be affected only by the blood of kids.
0	I see you are laughing.
0	Go to the soldiers and bid them go down and bring me the thing I ask, the thing the Tetrarch has promised me, the thing that is mine.
0	But, wherefore dost thou not look at me, Jokanaan?
0	After a time that evil mood passed away, and I made up my mind to live, but to wear gloom as a king wears purple: never to smile again: to turn whatever house I entered into a house of mourning: to make my friends walk slowly in sadness with me: to teach them that melancholy is the true secret of life: to maim them with an alien sorrow: to mar them with my own pain.
0	But he was not more Christlike than Wagner when he realised his soul in music; or than Shelley, when he realised his soul in song.
0	Had she cursed him, as she died?
0	You have invented a very useful younger brother called Ernest, in order that you may be able to come up to town as often as you like.
0	And this is perhaps the best rough test of what is literature and what is not.
0	The highest Criticism, then, is more creative than creation, and the primary aim of the critic is to see the object as in itself it really is not; that is your theory, I believe?
0	I would rather like to see Cecily.
0	"Of course it is true, Lord Henry.
0	So little that I got engaged to be married to her once, when I was staying at the Tenbys’.
0	"Basil," he said, looking very pale, "you must not look at it.
0	I thought of telling the prophet that art had a soul, but that man had not.
0	Finish what you have to say."
0	A lady standing close to her tittered.
0	That is charming of you.
0	I caught it in its flight, and brake the shaft into two pieces.
0	Of course you must help me in this matter.
0	And after that he had finished, the merchant led him to the guest-chamber, and bade him sleep and be at rest.
0	My dear child, I believe you are really very happy in your married life, but that you like to hide your happiness from others.
0	And the woman answered him nothing, but crept closer to the fire.
0	Again, on the rim of the wide flat cup he would draw the stag browsing, or the lion at rest, as his fancy willed it.
0	These are the poets, the philosophers, the men of science, the men of culture—in a word, the real men, the men who have realised themselves, and in whom all Humanity gains a partial realisation.
0	Never have I seen anything so marvellous; and the city in which she dances is but a day’s journey from this place.’ Now when the young Fisherman heard the words of his Soul, he remembered that the little Mermaid had no feet and could not dance.
0	And when the people were going to market at twelve o’clock they found the Giant playing with the children in the most beautiful garden they had ever seen.
0	I want you to have a clean name and a fair record.
0	that reminds me, you mentioned christenings I think, Dr. Chasuble?
0	Lord Henry had not yet come in.
0	Indeed, Lord Canterville himself, who was a man of the most punctilious honour, had felt it his duty to mention the fact to Mr. Otis when they came to discuss terms.
0	He hunts down the obvious with the enthusiasm of a short-sighted detective.
0	and to such little purpose!
0	From the expression on mamma's face I fear we never shall.
0	Why can’t they stay in their own country?
0	Gerald shall certainly not go away with you.
0	Yes, but I have not been christened for years.
0	The new Individualism, for whose service Socialism, whether it wills it or not, is working, will be perfect harmony.
0	Nothing annoys people so much as not receiving invitations.
0	They were, as you have pointed out, a nation of art-critics.
0	Once, she began to sing in a hoarse voice.
0	You talk as if you had no heart, no pity in you.
0	Well, he said at dinner on Wednesday night, that you would have to choose between this world, the next world, and Australia.
0	I do not believe in prophets.
0	she is audacious enough for anything, my dear.
0	It was better not to think of the past.
0	They had no place in my philosophy.
0	They call it being conceited.
0	But the type of which, after all, he is only one, and certainly the least important, of the representatives, seems to me to be really dominating our lives; and just as the philanthropist is the nuisance of the ethical sphere, so the nuisance of the intellectual sphere is the man who is so occupied in trying to educate others, that he has never had any time to educate himself.
0	“I cannot understand why the Spring is so late in coming,” said the Selfish Giant, as he sat at the window and looked out at his cold white garden; “I hope there will be a change in the weather.” But the Spring never came, nor the Summer.
0	He played with the idea and grew wilful; tossed it into the air and transformed it; let it escape and recaptured it; made it iridescent with fancy and winged it with paradox.
0	Really, some one should arrange a proper scheme of assisted emigration.
0	Where is that place in the country, by the way?
0	"But why should you be annoyed?
0	His heart trembled, a cry of joy broke from his lips, and he moved out into the sunlight.
0	But, as the nineteenth century has gone bankrupt through an over-expenditure of sympathy, I would suggest that we should appeal to science to put us straight.
0	"You don't know his name, though," said the lad harshly.
0	You know what I mean--middle-class virtue and all that kind of thing.
0	You think there is no woman in the world who would object to being kissed?
0	His kiss burned again upon her mouth.
0	Admirably suited for a religious subject, Mr.
0	He is to be the violin on which the master is to play.
0	But it is not so.
0	What have you or I to do with the superstitions of our age?
0	But I will send for the butler and ask.
0	"I can't bear this, Harry!
0	To her immense surprise, however, it was the Canterville Ghost himself!
0	It distracts public attention from their own.
0	But you haven't proposed to me yet.
0	And I—I tell you that had it ever occurred to me that such a monstrous suspicion would have entered your mind, I would have died rather than have crossed your life or his—oh!
0	I assure you, dear, that the country has not that effect at all.
0	"I hope so, Uncle George, for Dartmoor's sake.
0	I have only told you half of them as yet, Miss Mabel!
0	It does not copy it, but moulds it to its purpose.
0	And, yet, what did it matter?
0	Don’t grin like that, sir.
0	In eternal twilight they move, those frail diaphanous figures, whose tremulous white feet seem not to touch the dew-drenched grass they tread on.
0	She wants you to receive her once.
0	I have been determined through life to hold the position of a gentleman.
0	Then there was a State Banquet, which lasted for five hours.
0	Modern morality consists in accepting the standard of one's age.
0	“‘Upon my word,’ said the Miller, ‘you are very lazy.
0	It is the spectator, and not life, that art really mirrors.
0	My mother died when I was a mere child.
0	But if after I am free a friend of mine had a sorrow and refused to allow me to share it, I should feel it most bitterly.
0	The harsh intervals and shrill discords of barbaric music stirred him at times when Schubert's grace, and Chopin's beautiful sorrows, and the mighty harmonies of Beethoven himself, fell unheeded on his ear.
0	The courts of the city of God are not open to us now.
0	Yes, I think she should—I think she has the right.
0	Just the very largest print.
0	For five days he kept his room, and at last made up his mind to give up the point of the blood-stain on the library floor.
0	Mrs. Wainewright died, in giving him birth, at the early age of twenty-one, and an obituary notice in the _Gentleman’s Magazine_ tells us of her ‘amiable disposition and numerous accomplishments,’ and adds somewhat quaintly that ‘she is supposed to have understood the writings of Mr. Locke as well as perhaps any person of either sex now living.’  His father did not long survive his young wife, and the little child seems to have been brought up by his grandfather, and, on the death of the latter in 1803, by his uncle George Edward Griffiths, whom he subsequently poisoned.
0	I am afraid that you have been listening to the conversation of some one older than yourself.
0	But I cannot give my sister’s life into your hands.
0	As he thought of his aunt, an idea seemed to strike him.
0	They were perfectly magnificent, especially a certain ruby necklace with old Venetian setting, which was really a superb specimen of sixteenth-century work, and their value was so great that Mr. Otis felt considerable scruples about allowing his daughter to accept them.
0	His heavy eyelids drooped, and a strange languor came over him.
0	To the latter belongs life in its full and absolute entirety; not merely the beauty that men look at, but the beauty that men listen to also; not merely the momentary grace of form or the transient gladness of colour, but the whole sphere of feeling, the perfect cycle of thought.
0	But you are not very clever at paying compliments.
0	He always seems to think that he is addressing the House, and consequently whenever he discusses the state of the agricultural labourer, or the Welsh Church, or something quite improper of that kind, I am obliged to send all the servants out of the room.
0	Let me touch thy body.
0	You are wrong, I have friends, many friends.
0	"Well, Harry," said the old gentleman, "what brings you out so early?
0	People are either hunting for husbands, or hiding from them.
0	How dreary a bachelor’s drawing-room always looks.
0	Two by two they walk between the cypress trees and the black myrtles, and each has a slave to tend it.
0	I should like to be somebody else."
0	What object do you think I have in coming here, except to save you from utter ruin, to save you from the consequence of a hideous mistake?
0	We are enemies linked together.
0	I certainly won't leave you so long as you are in mourning.
0	‘Show it to me, for the house is bare, and we have need of many things.’  And he drew the cloak back, and showed her the sleeping child.
0	The panes glowed like plates of heated metal.
0	Yes, I am crying, for I have something to tell you, Arthur.
0	I think it has been a great success.
0	I don’t admit that it is any duty of mine to marry you.
0	_Doors L. and R._  _Table R. with writing materials.
0	how easily love is killed.
0	You don't know everything about me.
0	And are you still a bachelor?
0	But Cæsar is not coming into Judæa.
0	"I am not cold," he murmured.
0	If we are tempted to make war upon another nation, we shall remember that we are seeking to destroy an element of our own culture, and possibly its most important element.
0	As for the metaphors Shakespeare draws from dress, and the aphorisms he makes on it, his hits at the costume of his age, particularly at the ridiculous size of the ladies’ bonnets, and the many descriptions of the _mundus muliebris_, from the long of Autolycus in the _Winter’s Tale_ down to the account of the Duchess of Milan’s gown in _Much Ado About Nothing_, they are far too numerous to quote; though it may be worth while to remind people that the whole of the Philosophy of Clothes is to be found in Lear’s scene with Edgar—a passage which has the advantage of brevity and style over the grotesque wisdom and somewhat mouthing metaphysics of _Sartor Resartus_.
0	"It will be time enough, then, if you are back at half-past seven, Francis.
0	He was my brother, and nearer to me than a brother.
0	"No," she answered, wondering at the harsh simplicity of life.
0	They did not exist till Art had invented them.
0	As the glass door closed behind Dorian, Lord Henry turned and looked at the duchess with his slumberous eyes.
0	One knows their minds as easily as one knows their bonnets.
0	I say it's perfectly heartless your eating muffins at all, under the circumstances.
0	To shut one’s eyes to half of life that one may live securely is as though one blinded oneself that one might walk with more safety in a land of pit and precipice.
0	Only you must remember I warned you."
0	Awkward thing to manage, though.
0	Heavy eyelids drooped over his eyes.
0	It is exquisite, and it leaves one unsatisfied.
0	Yet, when the iron hoof of Napoleon trampled upon vineyard and cornfield, his lips were silent.
0	There is some flaw in each one of us.
0	I was sure of it, Robert, I was sure of it.
0	You are the one person in London I really like to have to listen to me.
0	“Who hath dared to wound thee?” cried the Giant; “tell me, that I may take my big sword and slay him.” “Nay!” answered the child; “but these are the wounds of Love.” “Who art thou?” said the Giant, and a strange awe fell on him, and he knelt before the little child.
0	Just as far as the conservatory.
0	And sometimes it is a great nuisance.
0	The moment of repentance is the moment of initiation.
0	Love is the great thing in the world.
0	"It is rather fashionable to marry Americans just now, Uncle George."
0	They would make a charming couple.
0	And when the courtiers heard them they looked at each other and whispered, saying: ‘Surely he is mad; for what is a dream but a dream, and a vision but a vision?
0	It would be always alive.
0	She will make the world as mad as she has made me."
0	Society, as we have constituted it, will have no place for me, has none to offer; but Nature, whose sweet rains fall on unjust and just alike, will have clefts in the rocks where I may hide, and secret valleys in whose silence I may weep undisturbed.
0	Through the burning rubies of Mars, Cacciaguida approaches.
0	I am glad to hear you say so.
0	You couldn't be so heartless as to disown him.
0	When the second act was over, there came a storm of hisses, and Lord Henry got up from his chair and put on his coat.
0	He is too fond of going directly to life, and borrowing life’s natural utterance.
0	Those who are faithful know only the trivial side of love: it is the faithless who know love's tragedies."
0	No, it gave him too much pain.
0	But in modern days while the fashion of writing poetry has become far too common, and should, if possible, be discouraged, the fashion of lying has almost fallen into disrepute.
0	While in reading the Gospels--particularly that of St. John himself, or whatever early Gnostic took his name and mantle--I see the continual assertion of the imagination as the basis of all spiritual and material life, I see also that to Christ imagination was simply a form of love, and that to him love was lord in the fullest meaning of the phrase.
0	Why not let me have him for a little now?
0	Without it the world would stagnate, or grow old, or become colourless.
0	They tap at the window, and laugh.
0	Have you a dance left, Agatha?
0	It is only shallow people who require years to get rid of an emotion.
0	John, the grass is too damp for you.
0	What a curious shape it is!
0	He was so filled with horror at having realised in his own person that terrible and well-written scene, and at having done accidentally, though in fact, what the Mr. Hyde of fiction had done with deliberate intent, that he ran away as hard as he could go.
0	Men who talked grossly became silent when Dorian Gray entered the room.
0	At present you have only the practice of friendship; some day you will have the theory also.’ “‘Do you really think I shall?’ asked little Hans.
0	From between the closely-neighboured boles astonished nymphs press     forward with loud cries—     And deerskin-vested satyrs, crowned with ivy twists, advance;     And put strange pity in their horned countenance.
0	[LORD ILLINGWORTH _rises and goes towards window_.]
0	Shall a man not eat bread till he has seen the sower, nor drink wine till he has talked with the vinedresser?’ And the Chamberlain spake to the young King, and said, ‘My lord, I pray thee set aside these black thoughts of thine, and put on this fair robe, and set this crown upon thy head.
0	Only the little boy did not run, for his eyes were so full of tears that he did not see the Giant coming.
0	"Go away, Harry," cried the lad.
0	I have never written a play for any actor or       actress, nor shall I ever do so.
0	Never before had he felt so keenly, or with such exquisite joy, the magic and the mystery of beautiful things.
0	If you want to know what a woman really means—which, by the way, is always a dangerous thing to do—look at her, don’t listen to her.
0	She knelt down and pressed his hands to her lips.
0	The thin beaten-out leaf of tremulous gold that chronicles the direction of forces the eye cannot see is in comparison coarse.
0	"That is a rather commonplace _debut_."
0	How different it is in the world of Art!
0	At half-past twelve next day Lord Henry Wotton strolled from Curzon Street over to the Albany to call on his uncle, Lord Fermor, a genial if somewhat rough-mannered old bachelor, whom the outside world called selfish because it derived no particular benefit from him, but who was considered generous by Society as he fed the people who amused him.
0	I should like to have something more of her than the memory of a few kisses and some broken pathetic words."
0	There was purification in punishment.
0	Then he proposed to me in broad daylight this morning, in front of that dreadful statue of Achilles.
0	When he looked back, the woman had vanished also.
0	For when the work is finished it has, as it were, an independent life of its own, and may deliver a message far other than that which was put into its lips to say.
0	Tell me it is not true!
0	When we begin to live, what is sweet is so sweet to us, and what is bitter so bitter, that we inevitably direct all our desires towards pleasures, and seek not merely for a 'month or twain to feed on honeycomb,' but for all our years to taste no other food, ignorant all the while that we may really be starving the soul.
0	"He is a very lucky fellow."
0	Has she not a strange look?
0	Nothing I might say would add to the reputation of its detractors.
0	A flight of grey stone steps leads up to the house.
0	And no one came to trouble the artist at his work.
0	You, I see from your card, are Uncle Jack's brother, my cousin Ernest, my wicked cousin Ernest.
0	What I mean by a perfect man is one who develops under perfect conditions; one who is not wounded, or worried or maimed, or in danger.
0	He has been most interesting on the subject of Patagonia.
0	Never have I seen her so pale.
0	She has not even told her own mother.
0	What are you saying, Lord Illingworth, about the drum?
0	did Chiltern uphold the scheme?
0	Dost thou seek to slay thine also?’ And the Star-Child wept and bowed his head, and prayed forgiveness of God’s things, and went on through the forest, seeking for the beggar-woman.
0	Tell me everything at once."
0	Well, in any case, be here at eleven."
0	Mother, you make it terribly difficult for me by talking like that; and I can’t understand why you won’t look at this matter from the right, from the only proper standpoint.
0	In its development it will be assisted by Christianity, if men desire that; but if men do not desire that, it will develop none the less surely.
0	I am ignoble in her eyes.
0	Blue also is too frequently used: it is not merely a dangerous colour to wear by gaslight, but it is really difficult in England to get a thoroughly good blue.
0	Why is my wife’s fan here?
0	It is very sweet of you to let me have your last afternoon.
0	It is rather awkward for Geoffrey, of course.
0	On mechanical slavery, on the slavery of the machine, the future of the world depends.
0	Indeed, from all I hear, I shouldn’t like to.
0	I find I have, and a heart doesn’t suit me, Windermere.
0	HAROLD, _the footman shows_ MRS. CHEVELEY _in_.
0	Caliban, poor noisy Caliban, thinks that when he has ceased to make mows at a thing, the thing ceases to exist.
0	Salt was the honey of the hair, yet he tasted it with a bitter joy.
0	And it seems that from the very first moment of his recognition he had shown signs of that strange passion for beauty that was destined to have so great an influence over his life.
0	And, yet, what was there to be afraid of?
0	"But I am tired to-night, Harry.
0	It must be terrible to be in so black a pit!
0	I must enter his proposal in my diary.
0	He had passed a whole night in noting the effect of the moonlight on a silver image of Endymion.
0	"I shudder at the thought of being free."
0	I seem to have heard another theory of Criticism.
0	Can’t imagine why people speak against her.
0	The opinions, the character, the achievements of the man, matter very little.
0	It was almost nine o'clock before he reached the club, where he found Lord Henry sitting alone, in the morning-room, looking very much bored.
0	Of course I shan’t bring Tommy Trafford.
0	They become more highly organized, and to be highly organized is, I should fancy, the object of man's existence.
0	Berwick and I told her that didn’t matter much, as the lady in question must have an extremely fine figure.
0	I should have thought that our politicians kept up that habit.
0	The poor tree was still quite covered with frost and snow, and the North Wind was blowing and roaring above it.
0	It was necessary that we should have control.
0	I do not mean in that shallow sense by which it has been concluded from his knowledge of deeds and daffodils that he was the Blackstone and Paxton of the Elizabethan age; but that he saw that costume could be made at once impressive of a certain effect on the audience and expressive of certain types of character, and is one of the essential factors of the means which a true illusionist has at his disposal.
0	I find that the poorer classes of this country display a marked desire for a higher ethical standard.
0	Harry is so cynical, he terrifies me.
0	His father was the son of a distinguished solicitor of Gray’s Inn and Hatton Garden.
0	"Pace gives life," was the _riposte_.
0	I will never mention your name.
0	What is our son at present?
0	_Enter the_ DUCHESS OF BERWICK _and_ LORD PAISLEY _laughing and talking_.
0	On one occasion he took up the study of jewels, and appeared at a costume ball as Anne de Joyeuse, Admiral of France, in a dress covered with five hundred and sixty pearls.
0	There was a horrible smell of nitric acid in the room.
0	I wonder what happened after I escaped from that horrible room.
0	You would endure anything rather than break with one blow this monstrous tie.
0	Well, the fact is, father, this is not my day for talking seriously.
0	Well I knew that the moon was seeking a dead thing, but I knew not that it was he whom she sought.
0	Arthur, I feel that public disgrace is in store for me.
0	In a short time he wearied of the service.
0	Herod hides his face with his cloak.
0	The marvels of design stir the imagination.
0	The exaggerated folly of the threat, the passionate gesture that accompanied it, the mad melodramatic words, made life seem more vivid to her.
0	Mr. Burney was the son of the historian of music, and the near kinsman of the artistic lad who was destined to turn out his most remarkable pupil.
0	This woman has the place that belongs by right to you.
0	We grieve, but our grief is not bitter.
0	He may break the law, and yet be fine.
0	From the palace of the Sea-King came the cry of mourning again, and far out upon the sea the great Tritons blew hoarsely upon their horns.
0	[_She sees the Page of Herodias and addresses him._] Come hither, thou wert the friend of him who is dead, is it not so?
0	The present Lord Illingworth is quite different.
0	He went moralising about the district, but his good work was produced when he returned, not to Nature but to poetry.
0	In looking at Shakespeare’s plays as a whole, however, what is really remarkable is their extraordinary fidelity as regards his personages and his plots.
0	And, valuable as beauty of effect on the stage is, the highest beauty is not merely comparable with absolute accuracy of detail, but really dependent on it.
0	It sought to degrade the wonderful world into a common market-place for the buyer and the seller.
0	Besides, my dear Robert, I should not build too high hopes on frightening Mrs. Cheveley.
0	SCENE—Same as in Act I.
0	I am jealous of the portrait you have painted of me.
0	After you left last night I found out that what she had said was really true.
0	"Not look at my own work!
0	The man looked at her in terror and began to whimper.
0	For, while he was but too ready to accept the position that was almost immediately offered to him on his coming of age, and found, indeed, a subtle pleasure in the thought that he might really become to the London of his own day what to imperial Neronian Rome the author of the Satyricon once had been, yet in his inmost heart he desired to be something more than a mere _arbiter elegantiarum_, to be consulted on the wearing of a jewel, or the knotting of a necktie, or the conduct of a cane.
0	That is a matter that surely an aunt may be allowed to decide for herself.
0	So I first sold the silver buttons off my Sunday coat, and then I sold my silver chain, and then I sold my big pipe, and at last I sold my wheelbarrow.
0	There should be a name.
0	We have nearly the same images in both.
0	It is one of your most fascinating qualities, Lady Hunstanton.
0	We men and women are not made to accept such sacrifices from each other.
0	"I must confess that most of them are extremely pretty.
0	I think it was that which first attracted me to her.
0	Any one you love must be marvellous, and any girl who has the effect you describe must be fine and noble.
0	“‘Why, what a good heart you have!’ cried his Wife; ‘you are always thinking of others.
0	And the Infanta frowned, and her dainty rose-leaf lips curled in pretty disdain.
0	Never know why I go anywhere.
0	And if you keep it always behind a screen, you can't care much about it."
0	The Romans have driven them out.
0	To and fro over the fens go the lepers, and they are cruel to each other.
0	The sins of the parents should be visited on the children.
0	But go to my brother who grows beneath the Student’s window, and perhaps he will give you what you want.” So the Nightingale flew over to the Rose-tree that was growing beneath the Student’s window.
0	But you never have been refused yet by anybody, have you, Arthur?
0	Ah, I see you’re examining Mrs. Arbuthnot’s pretty room.
0	It has been well known for three centuries, since 1584 in fact, and always makes its appearance before the death of any member of our family."
0	"I always agree with Harry, Duchess."
0	Basil had painted the portrait that had marred his life.
0	I represent to you all the sins you have never had the courage to commit."
0	It is not true, Robert.
0	Hearts live by being wounded.
0	Now, to-night I am not at all well.
0	It reminds me of the handwriting of a woman I used to know years ago.
0	I am afraid I don’t.
0	End of Project Gutenberg's The Picture of Dorian Gray, by Oscar Wilde
0	Much more so than her husband, though he is a typical Englishman, always dull and usually violent.
0	It was obvious that this was not the man who had destroyed her life.
0	Wife as well as husband.
0	Come and bid good-bye to Lady Windermere, and thank her for your charming visit.
0	As he did so, the figure moved out also, and he saw it plainly.
0	One night at C-’s, the above     dramatic partners were the temporary subject of chat.
0	Did you really see it?"
0	But you see what a perfect piece of æsthetic criticism it is.
0	It is only a slight return, I know, but it is the one, I feel certain, that pleases them most.
0	He would not have given his rose for all the pearls on the canopy, nor one white petal of his rose for the throne itself.
0	“To-morrow my friends will fly up to the Second Cataract.
0	‘And in the first chamber I saw an idol seated on a throne of jasper bordered with great orient pearls.
0	No; I can’t go to-day, Arthur.
0	Ours is certainly the dullest and most prosaic century possible.
0	Do not for that reason set him down now too low.
0	LADY WINDERMERE _stands watching them in terror_.]
0	I am told that there is hardly a husband in London who does not waste his life over _some_ shameful passion.
0	"I am afraid so," rejoined Lord Henry.
0	And you will always call me Gwendolen, won't you?
0	Reformed, you would be perfectly tedious.
0	In about seven or eight minutes he reached a small shabby house that was wedged in between two gaunt factories.
0	His eye fell on the yellow book that Lord Henry had sent him.
0	"Leave me now," said a stern voice behind him.
0	They had seen him often in the forest, dancing about like an elf after the eddying leaves, or crouched up in the hollow of some old oak-tree, sharing his nuts with the squirrels.
0	You have had a visitor.
0	She had been a wife for even less time than you have.
0	But Lord Illingworth doesn’t seem to mind that.
0	It is rather horrid of me, as he has sent me my portrait in the most wonderful frame, specially designed by himself, and, though I am a little jealous of the picture for being a whole month younger than I am, I must admit that I delight in it.
0	But the sixteenth century was not merely the age of Vitruvius; it was the age of Vecellio also.
0	I turned half-way round and saw Dorian Gray for the first time.
0	But it was too late now.
0	The bread and butter is for Gwendolen.
0	To you at least she was always a dream, a phantom that flitted through Shakespeare's plays and left them lovelier for its presence, a reed through which Shakespeare's music sounded richer and more full of joy.
0	However, he was so young that you must excuse him.” “Is that the end of the story?” asked the Water-rat.
0	Second proof by Paul Redmond.
0	Socialism, Communism, or whatever one chooses to call it, by converting private property into public wealth, and substituting co-operation for competition, will restore society to its proper condition of a thoroughly healthy organism, and insure the material well-being of each member of the community.
0	She has never abandoned herself to men, like the other goddesses.
0	Do tell me what it is.
0	I took a great fancy to young Arbuthnot the moment I met him, and he’ll be of considerable use to me in something I am foolish enough to think of doing.
0	But you will make me a handsome settlement, Windermere, won’t you?
0	God is in what is evil even as He is in what is good.
0	_Sits down at table and writes a letter_, _puts it into an envelope_, _and leaves it on table_.]
0	But I admit I have something to tell you that may distress you, that terribly distresses me.
0	Women like you have no hearts.
0	“The world is certainly very beautiful,” cried a little Squib.
0	Who could say where the fleshly impulse ceased, or the psychical impulse began?
0	There is too much love of pleasure amongst the upper classes as it is.
0	You must come and dine with me, and afterwards we will look in at the opera.
0	It is an irrevocable vow that I want to take.
0	Whenever people talk to me about the weather, I always feel quite certain that they mean something else.
0	Would you introduce her to your wife?
0	"Shut the door behind you," he whispered, as he placed the lamp on the table.
0	Consider the matter from a scientific or a metaphysical point of view, and you will find that I am right.
0	"It is quite finished," he cried at last, and stooping down he wrote his name in long vermilion letters on the left-hand corner of the canvas.
0	And yet how wearisome the plays are!
0	There is of course much in his descriptions, and his suggestions for decoration, that shows that he did not entirely free himself from the false taste of his time.
0	Bid her rise up from the bed of her abominations, from the bed of her incestuousness, that she may hear the words of him who prepareth the way of the Lord, that she may repent her of her iniquities.
0	Wherefore doth she look at me with her golden eyes, under her gilded eyelids?
0	Vulgar habit that is people have nowadays of asking one, after one has given them an idea, whether one is serious or not.
0	Starvation, and not sin, is the parent of modern crime.
0	I really don't see anything romantic in proposing.
0	It is a sad truth, but we have lost the faculty of giving lovely names to things.
0	One can see that she loves her mother well.
0	After they had gone he felt lonely, and began to tire of his lady-love.
0	There was something of the fawn in her shy grace and startled eyes.
0	I think I had better look after John.
0	A well-tied tie is the first serious step in life.
0	"My child, you are far too young to think of falling in love.
0	The Otises, however, were deceived, for the ghost was still in the house, and though now almost an invalid, was by no means ready to let matters rest, particularly as he heard that among the guests was the young Duke of Cheshire, whose grand-uncle, Lord Francis Stilton, had once bet a hundred guineas with Colonel Carbury that he would play dice with the Canterville ghost, and was found the next morning lying on the floor of the card-room in such a helpless paralytic state that, though he lived on to a great age, he was never able to say anything again but "Double Sixes."
0	The fuming censers that the grave boys, in their lace and scarlet, tossed into the air like great gilt flowers had their subtle fascination for him.
0	When the man's punishment is over, it leaves him to himself; that is to say, it abandons him at the very moment when its highest duty towards him begins.
0	He, at any rate, had escaped that.
0	She looked at him, smiling.
0	Mrs. Cheveley was concealed in a room adjoining my library, without my knowledge.
0	You have neither the wit nor the courage.
0	Not the apostles of that new Journalism which is but the old vulgarity ‘writ large.’  Not the apostles of that new Puritanism, which is but the whine of the hypocrite, and is both writ and spoken badly.
0	Indeed, a few months after the murder of Helen Abercrombie, he had been actually arrested for debt in the streets of London while he was serenading the pretty daughter of one of his friends.
0	“The god is asleep,” he murmured.
0	As he was passing out of the door, Dorian Gray touched him on the arm.
0	Their thoughts are some one else's opinions, their lives a mimicry, their passions a quotation.
0	But I am poor beside him.
0	[_Exit following the other guests_.
0	When midnight sounded from the clock-tower he touched a bell, and his pages entered and disrobed him with much ceremony, pouring rose-water over his hands, and strewing flowers on his pillow.
0	It is to him that Art makes her appeal.
0	_She has the fascinating tyranny of youth_, _and the astonishing courage of innocence_.
0	Her parted lips were smiling over some secret of their own.
0	You must see her in the first act, where she meets Romeo."
0	I have put too much of myself into it."
0	I consider that for any man of culture to accept the standard of his age is a form of the grossest immorality."
0	That he had a sincere love of art and nature seems to me quite certain.
0	In fact, it is so interesting that the people who use it do not know what it means.
0	I don’t believe in women thinking too much.
0	You have the most comforting views of life.
0	So beautiful was she that when the young Fisherman saw her he was filled with wonder, and he put out his hand and drew the net close to him, and leaning over the side he clasped her in his arms.
0	But what influence will your critic, brought up in these exquisite surroundings, possess?
0	Suspicion fell on a wretched servant, who was sent away in disgrace.
0	The thing was horribly apparent.
0	Shall I read you what I have written?
0	“I will put up there,” he cried; “it is a fine position, with plenty of fresh air.”  So he alighted just between the feet of the Happy Prince.
0	A Gladstone bag and an ulster!
0	It would be quite impossible at the present moment to furnish a room as rooms were furnished a few years ago, without going for everything to an auction of second-hand furniture from some third-rate lodging-house.
0	LORD ILLINGWORTH _frowns and bites his lip_.
0	I may come to-night, mayn’t I?
0	The land was dry and burnt up with the heat.
0	He would become dreadful, hideous, and uncouth.
0	Lady Windermere, before Heaven your husband is guiltless of all offence towards you!
0	As a consequence our art is of the moon and plays with shadows, while Greek art is of the sun and deals directly with things.
0	He could easily burn them afterwards.
0	Come; let us go home."
0	[Rising and drawing herself up.]
0	Death must be so beautiful.
0	How proud and handsome he was, with his chestnut curls and insolent pose!
0	They loved the trees for the shadow that they cast, and the forest for its silence at noon.
0	But music was not articulate.
0	He placed his foot on it and put it out.
0	But it has a price, pretty boy, it has a price.
0	Nay, but it is not cold, it is hot.
0	But I see it is time for supper.
0	Oh, I will tell you.
0	Yes:  there was to be, as Lord Henry had prophesied, a new Hedonism that was to recreate life and to save it from that harsh uncomely puritanism that is having, in our own day, its curious revival.
0	[_Tries to open it_, _but fails_.
0	_Doors C. and R.  Bureau with books and papers R._  _Sofa with small tea-table L._  _Window opening on to terrace L._  _Table R._ [LADY WINDERMERE _is at table R._, _arranging roses in a blue bowl_.]
0	Come, you and I will smoke a cigarette on the terrace together.
0	If thou hadst seen me thou wouldst have loved me.
0	They depress me so much.
0	The stones flew from her hoofs.
0	It is worth noticing that Shakespeare’s first and last successes were both historical plays.
0	I’ll be back in five minutes.
0	“‘Good morning, little Hans,’ said the Miller.
0	She was about twenty years of age, a tall graceful girl with fair hair.
0	The old roads and dusty highways have been traversed too often.
0	For there is no art where there is no style, and no style where there is no unity, and unity is of the individual.
0	I like them for their form, just as much as for their matter.
0	It is not good for one's morals to see bad acting.
0	First you took all my reds, including the vermilion, and I couldn't do any more sunsets, then you took the emerald-green and the chrome-yellow, and finally I had nothing left but indigo and Chinese white, and could only do moonlight scenes, which are always depressing to look at, and not at all easy to paint.
0	I could have killed it for ever, sent it back into its tomb, destroyed its record, burned the one witness against me.
0	"One may lose one's way."
0	[_Goes to table R.C._] LORD DARLINGTON.
0	And I dare say I’ll make him an admirable wife, as wives go.
0	My dear child, you are not well.
0	But this is merely the light and graceful side of lying, such as was probably heard at Cretan dinner-parties.
0	My boy is excessively immoral.
0	But they saw that the sea was for the swimmer, and the sand for the feet of the runner.
0	He seemed very much disappointed.
0	What was it you said?
0	if you only knew what Dorian Gray is to me!
0	I hope to-morrow will be a fine day, Lane.
0	My dear Gerald, examinations are of no value whatsoever.
0	I am sure you certainly would.
0	Thank God, I have not got his blood upon my hands."
0	If my public engagements permit me.
0	I remember the occurrence perfectly.
0	Earth yawns,     and the graves give up their dwellers.
0	"Pleasure is the only thing worth having a theory about," he answered in his slow melodious voice.
0	It is time for him to retire.
0	"She will never come to life again now," muttered the lad, burying his face in his hands.
0	They have degraded the invisible arts into the obvious arts, and the one thing not worth looking at is the obvious.
0	Besides, feasts are not for me any more.
0	Your Rector here is, I suppose, thoroughly experienced in the practice of all the rites and ceremonials of the Church?
0	No, time to forget all I have learned.
0	I should like _you_ to take me very seriously, Lady Windermere, _you_ more than any one else in life.
0	I had made it a low by-word among low people.
0	Man, poor, awkward, reliable, necessary man belongs to a sex that has been rational for millions and millions of years.
0	[_Kisses_ LADY CHILTERN _and goes out_; _then comes running back_.]
0	I happen to be serious about Bunburying.
0	On seeing them approach, the peasants take refuge in dialect.
0	It is a lovely day, Francis, and Richmond is a very pretty place--otherwise I wouldn't bother you about it."
0	One pays for one’s sin, and then one pays again, and all one’s life one pays.
0	I can't afford orchids, but I spare no expense in foreigners.
0	Really, I don’t want to meet my father three days running.
0	But I forgave you before the week was out.
0	I never knew what terror was before.
0	"But suppose, Harry, I became haggard, and old, and wrinkled?
0	How hard good women are!
0	Thy mouth is redder than the feet of those who tread the wine in the wine-press.
0	It is not in very good repair; indeed, one side is gone, and there is something wrong with the wheel-spokes; but in spite of that I will give it to you.
0	The last is much the worst; the last is a real tragedy!
0	At half-past six the boys came back and said that they could find no trace of their sister anywhere.
0	My temperament was akin to joy.
0	Old Mr. Thomas Cardew, who adopted me when I was a little boy, made me in his will guardian to his grand-daughter, Miss Cecily Cardew.
0	Some of the other slaves peered curiously over the side.
0	"A method of procuring sensations?
0	[_Goes out followed by_ PHIPPS.
0	On that little hill by the city of Florence, where the lovers of Giorgione are lying, it is always the solstice of noon, of noon made so languorous by summer suns that hardly can the slim naked girl dip into the marble tank the round bubble of clear glass, and the long fingers of the lute-player rest idly upon the chords.
0	Every man is when he is young.
0	When one stops to speak to them, they throw pinches of frankincense upon a charcoal brazier and make the air sweet.
0	You have at least the consolation of knowing that you were always the most generous and forgiving of brothers.
0	is not the body more than raiment?'
0	‘J’en offre ici toute mes excuses aux spectateurs intelligents,’ he says in a note to one of the plays; ‘espérons qu’un jour un seigneur vénitien pourra dire tout bonnement sans péril son blason sur le théâtre.
0	The silence that dwells in the forest is not so black.
0	How dare you class my husband with yourself?
0	That is not very consistent after what you have just said.
0	Weeping as one smitten with pain he flung himself down beside it, and he kissed the cold red of the mouth, and toyed with the wet amber of the hair.
0	"If Dorian wishes it, of course you must stay.
0	There is hardly a single title in the Upper House, with the exception of course of the uninteresting titles assumed by the law lords, which does not appear in Shakespeare along with many details of family history, creditable and discreditable.
0	murmured Dorian Gray, sipping some pale-yellow wine from a delicate, gold-beaded bubble of Venetian glass and looking dreadfully bored.
0	Of course I should not dream of doing so if I were not your friend.
0	often you don’t make sufficient allowances.
0	It was you who made him break his promise?
0	But their remedies do not cure the disease: they merely prolong it.
0	The hearse was drawn by eight black horses, each of which carried on its head a great tuft of nodding ostrich-plumes, and the leaden coffin was covered by a rich purple pall, on which was embroidered in gold the Canterville coat-of-arms.
0	asked Dorian, holding up his Burgundy against the light and wondering how it was that he could discuss the matter so calmly.
0	Here, in the Palace, the air was close and heavy, but in the forest the wind blew free, and the sunlight with wandering hands of gold moved the tremulous leaves aside.
0	I will not marry Lord Illingworth.
0	Dip into it thy little red lips, that I may drain the cup.
0	[They all go off except Jack and Algernon.]
0	I don’t know what society is coming to.
0	If so, it was for me to come to you, not for you to write of coming to me.
0	It is not a story I could tell to any one else.
0	It is the coming of death that terrifies me.
0	Oh, no, they write; I don’t.
0	If you wish it, Mrs. Cheveley!
0	Arthur, you must let me go into that room and satisfy myself.
0	No explanations are necessary about my friendship with Mrs. Erlynne.
0	Agatha, this is Lord Darlington.
0	But I did not leave him with a mere longing for things he could not get.
0	I told him I never even read them.
0	I am off to Paris by the midnight train, and I particularly wanted to see you before I left.
0	He used to wonder at the shallow psychology of those who conceive the ego in man as a thing simple, permanent, reliable, and of one essence.
0	He heard the Witch laugh, and caught her by the waist, and whirled her madly round and round.
0	Ah, yes!—the moral qualities in women—that is the important thing.
0	You seem to me to be perfectly heartless.
0	I delight in talking politics.
0	It is not necessarily realistic in an age of realism, nor spiritual in an age of faith.
0	Scotland Yard still insists that the man in the grey ulster who left for Paris by the midnight train on the ninth of November was poor Basil, and the French police declare that Basil never arrived in Paris at all.
0	It merely requires a complete ignorance of both life and literature.
0	Why do you speak to her?
0	I am sure he is chaste as the moon is.
0	How charming your sweet wife looks!
0	Sir Robert, I will be quite frank with you.
0	Mother, did you love my father as I love Prince Charming?"
0	I always hear Harry's views from his friends.
0	The only artists I have ever known who are personally delightful are bad artists.
0	Poetry is an instance of what I mean.
0	Crying is the refuge of plain women but the ruin of pretty ones.
0	Arthur, I am parched with thirst.
0	I am the slave of my word, and my word is the word of a king.
0	"I'll back English women against the world, Harry," said Lord Fermor, striking the table with his fist.
0	[_He looks anxiously at his wife_.]
0	[_Takes up roses and begins to arrange them in a bowl on the table_.]
0	My husband may return to me.
0	I heard all about it the other day from a critic who was walking round the pond with a young man.
0	A bitter laugh of mockery broke from the lips of the younger man.
0	Fashion, by which what is really fantastic becomes for a moment universal, and dandyism, which, in its own way, is an attempt to assert the absolute modernity of beauty, had, of course, their fascination for him.
0	You have the modern affectation of weakness.
0	One could hear her singing as she ran upstairs.
0	And so trouble not thyself any more, but come with me to this city.’ But the young Fisherman answered not his Soul, but closed his lips with the seal of silence and with a tight cord bound his hands, and journeyed back to the place from which he had come, even to the little bay where his love had been wont to sing.
0	But I have imagination, for I never think of things as they really are; I always think of them as being quite different.
0	She loved him so much, and he had promised to marry her!
0	"Not as long as you love him, I suppose," was the sullen answer.
0	As they did so, a little smile touched his proud lips, as a bird’s wing touches the water and makes it laugh.
0	We became great friends, and were constantly together.
0	She is too wise or too cruel for that.
0	It had been given to him by Adrian Singleton.
0	Only love can keep any one alive.
0	You must certainly see them.” So at the end of the King’s garden a great stand had been set up, and as soon as the Royal Pyrotechnist had put everything in its proper place, the fireworks began to talk to each other.
0	"The basis of every scandal is an immoral certainty," said Lord Henry, lighting a cigarette.
0	But the strange expression that he had noticed in the face of the portrait seemed to linger there, to be more intensified even.
0	I have given up trying to reform him.
0	I hate people who are not serious about meals.
0	She was stern to me, but she taught me what the world is forgetting, the difference that there is between what is right and what is wrong.
0	Him he kept for his service, and when he had bathed himself in clear water, he opened a great painted chest, and from it he took the leathern tunic and rough sheepskin cloak that he had worn when he had watched on the hillside the shaggy goats of the goatherd.
0	They are nothing; they bring misery.
0	To know the vintage and quality of a wine one need not drink the whole cask.
0	‘I will send my soul away,’ he cried, ‘and you shall be my bride, and I will be thy bridegroom, and in the depth of the sea we will dwell together, and all that thou hast sung of thou shalt show me, and all that thou desirest I will do, nor shall our lives be divided.’ And the little Mermaid laughed for pleasure and hid her face in her hands.
0	I know you would never harm any one I love, would you?"
0	My father is Lord Bracknell.
0	There is a grotesque horror about its comedies, and its tragedies seem to culminate in farce.
0	He writes about La Gioconda, and early French poets and the Italian Renaissance.
0	Mr. Ernest has been suddenly called back to town.
0	There, stands dread Saul with the lordly male-sapphires gleaming in his turban.
0	It shuts one out from so much.
0	Except for a light in one of the top windows, the house was all dark.
0	The fresh morning air seemed to drive away all his sombre passions.
0	You seem not to learn anything.
0	Dorian Gray shook his head and struck some soft chords on the piano.
0	Robert says he is the best secretary he has ever had.
0	He is in a boat on the sea of Galilee, and He talketh with His disciples.
0	I would give anything to be able to alter it when I go out.
0	Mr. X.     commended the passion and haughty style of a tragedy (I don’t know     which of them), but was instantly taken up by Elia, who told him     ‘_That_ was nothing; the lyrics were the high things—the lyrics!’ One side of his literary career deserves especial notice.
0	"Ah, Alan," murmured Dorian with a sigh, "I wish you had a thousandth part of the pity for me that I have for you."
0	The only possible society is oneself.
0	He is an admirable young man.
0	It was one of the women who had been drinking at the bar.
0	Harry the Fifth is a pure Englishman, and Othello a true Moor.
0	"Harry, I can't quarrel with my two best friends at once, but between you both you have made me hate the finest piece of work I have ever done, and I will destroy it.
0	When she leaned over the balcony and came to those wonderful lines--         Although I joy in thee,     I have no joy of this contract to-night:     It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden;     Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be     Ere one can say, "It lightens."
0	No, Ernest, self-culture is the true ideal of man.
0	Gertrude, I wish you would speak to Tommy Trafford.
0	Yes, dear, if you can believe him.
0	I thought of Wordsworth’s ‘Lines written in March.’ However, we must not forget that the cultivated young man who penned these lines, and who was so susceptible to Wordsworthian influences, was also, as I said at the beginning of this memoir, one of the most subtle and secret poisoners of this or any age.
0	It is really not so, Ernest.
0	Thank you, Mr. Montford, I never touch supper.
0	All I have got to say now in that I am very, very much pleased with our boy.
0	We can’t follow Lord Illingworth.
0	I have hills far steeper to climb, valleys much darker to pass through.
0	“Ah, on what little things does happiness depend!
0	You should say the first romance of your life.
0	Besides, was it really under his control?
0	Just the sort of life I would like to lead.
0	I answer that a dramatist who laid such stress on historical accuracy of fact would have welcomed historical accuracy of costume as a most important adjunct to his illusionist method.
0	The studio was filled with the rich odour of roses, and when the light summer wind stirred amidst the trees of the garden, there came through the open door the heavy scent of the lilac, or the more delicate perfume of the pink-flowering thorn.
0	There is no more to be said.
0	"I could not use it.
0	"And what does she get annoyed with you about, Duchess?"
0	"My ideal, as you call it..." "As you called it."
0	I was bored to death.
0	[_He goes down into the cistern._] I will kiss thy mouth, Jokanaan; I will kiss thy mouth.
0	They give us, now and then, some of those luxurious sterile emotions that have a certain charm for the weak.
0	We have always been picturesque protests against the mere existence of common sense.
0	Dim and wavering as was the wind-blown light, yet it served to show him the hideous error, as it seemed, into which he had fallen, for the face of the man he had sought to kill had all the bloom of boyhood, all the unstained purity of youth.
0	Three times in our journey we came to the banks of the Oxus.
0	I am always thinking about myself, and I expect everybody else to do the same.
0	I assure you I was horribly deceived in Ernest.
0	The words have not been transfigured into ordinary operatic nonsense to suit the score, or the susceptibilities of the English people.
0	You should give her warning."
0	He would probably be extremely realistic.
0	It is not very, very nice, is it?
0	No; it is an element of revelation.
0	But I see that the moon is hiding behind a sulphur-coloured cloud.
0	It's the excuse I've always given for your leading such a bad life.
0	Wherever there is a man who exercises authority, there is a man who resists authority.
0	The thing that stops them, it must be said again, is their desire to exercise authority over the artist and over works of art.
0	Between seven and eight thousand a year.
0	You have set yourself to music.
0	If a man is a gentleman, he knows quite enough, and if he is not a gentleman, whatever he knows is bad for him."
0	My dear Margaret, what a handsome woman your husband has been dancing with!
0	And the Soul said to him, ‘When I left thee, I turned my face to the South and journeyed.
0	The answer is very simple.
0	“What disobedient children!” cried the old Water-rat; “they really deserve to be drowned.” “Nothing of the kind,” answered the Duck, “every one must make a beginning, and parents cannot be too patient.” “Ah!
0	Why is it that so many gentlemen in London will neither go to your house or invite you to theirs?
0	The critic may, indeed, desire to exercise influence; but, if so, he will concern himself not with the individual, but with the age, which he will seek to wake into consciousness, and to make responsive, creating in it new desires and appetites, and lending it his larger vision and his nobler moods.
0	They can discover everything except the obvious.
0	Gone out of her house!
0	Now, don’t let your charming mother make any more difficulties, Gerald.
0	How could I admire her?
0	Why does the Tetrarch look at me all the while with his mole's eyes under his shaking eyelids?
0	Suddenly he rubbed his eyes in wonder, and looked and looked.
0	No one who lived in modern Russia could possibly realise his perfection except by pain.
0	For it is through joy that the Individualism of the future will develop itself.
0	Their feathers were quite stiff with rime, but they did not mind, and they rolled their large yellow eyes, and called out to each other across the forest, ‘Tu-whit!
0	It is not worth a clipped piece of silver.
0	It may not be purchased of the merchants, nor can it be weighed out in the balance for gold.” “The musicians will sit in their gallery,” said the young Student, “and play upon their stringed instruments, and my love will dance to the sound of the harp and the violin.
0	What was the use of knowing?
0	But for those two things, his life might have been free from stain.
0	The world had always loved the saint as being the nearest possible approach to the perfection of God.
0	_She then goes out_, _followed by the servant_, _who closes the door after him_.
0	The arrows of craft shot by her.
0	The Camerera, however, on the plea that the sun was too hot, decided that it would be better that her Highness should return without delay to the Palace, where a wonderful feast had been already prepared for her, including a real birthday cake with her own initials worked all over it in painted sugar and a lovely silver flag waving from the top.
0	In every tower stands an archer with a bow in his hand.
0	[_Exit_ LADY AGATHA _with_ MR.
0	Was the world going to be shown his secret?
0	[_Sits down at the table and takes a pen in his hand_.]
0	He is very heartless, very heartless.
0	Its people were dear to him; and he led them.
0	This is no doubt so, and some of them are worthy of mention.
0	That is the only true definition of what married women’s property really is.
0	Nay more, where there is no record, and history is either lost, or was never written, Criticism can re-create the past for us from the very smallest fragment of language or art, just as surely as the man of science can from some tiny bone, or the mere impress of a foot upon a rock, re-create for us the winged dragon or Titan lizard that once made the earth shake beneath its tread, can call Behemoth out of his cave, and make Leviathan swim once more across the startled sea.
0	She is better than I am.
0	"He is gone," murmured Sibyl sadly.
0	Lord Goring says—what did you say, Lord Goring, about Mrs. Cheveley?
0	Misery and poverty are so absolutely degrading, and exercise such a paralysing effect over the nature of men, that no class is ever really conscious of its own suffering.
0	If you would like to be alone with your son, I will leave you.
0	But they are quite impossible to live with; they are too clever, too assertive, too intellectual.
0	Well, from whatever source her large fortune came, I have a great esteem for Miss Worsley.
0	Perhaps at this moment she is forgiving you.
0	I didn't hear what Harry said.
0	I fear him not, Princess; there is no man I fear.
0	You have known nearly everybody in your time, so you might have known her.
0	Those who try to lead the people can only do so by following the mob.
0	Perhaps she followed us to the schools.
0	When they returned Helen Abercrombie was dead.
0	Paradox though it may seem—and paradoxes are always dangerous things—it is none the less true that Life imitates art far more than Art imitates life.
0	Certainly, if you pin it in.
0	He gave one of the footmen his hat and stick and passed into the dining-room.
0	It is something that has dwelt in fearful places, and in ancient sepulchres has made its abode.
0	Yes, Arthur, do go, please.
0	I never travel without my diary.
0	He thought of his friend's young fiery-coloured life and wondered how it was all going to end.
0	We have no need of that!
0	Besides, in England, at any rate, the public have undergone a transformation; there is far more appreciation of beauty now than there was a few years ago; and though they may not be familiar with the authorities and archæological data for what is shown to them, still they enjoy whatever loveliness they look at.
0	However, in your case, Robert, a confession would not do.
0	It was folly to think so.
0	Merely that I am engaged to be married to Mr. Worthing, mamma.
0	Well--would you believe it?--a week ago, at Lady Hampshire's, I found myself seated at dinner next the lady in question, and she insisted on going over the whole thing again, and digging up the past, and raking up the future.
0	I hope it is not a little thing, Mrs. Cheveley.
0	And you threw me over because you saw, or said you saw, poor old Lord Mortlake trying to have a violent flirtation with me in the conservatory at Tenby.
0	There was a God who called upon men to tell their sins to earth as well as to heaven.
0	Yes, she must certainly come to the forest and play with him.
0	It is not perfect in form, for it is badly written, consisting perhaps of notes dotted down for an art lecture, or of isolated fragments destined for some larger book, but in temper and treatment it is perfect, absolutely.
0	Those who live in marble or on painted panel, know of life but a single exquisite instant, eternal indeed in its beauty, but limited to one note of passion or one mood of calm.
0	After about ten minutes a knock came to the door, and the servant entered, carrying a large mahogany chest of chemicals, with a long coil of steel and platinum wire and two rather curiously shaped iron clamps.
0	I have already said so.
0	She has a strange look!
0	If one contemplates the ordinary pulpits and platforms of England, one can but feel the contempt of Julian, or the indifference of Montaigne.
0	The only thing that sustains one through life is the consciousness of the immense inferiority of everybody else, and this is a feeling that I have always cultivated.
0	Have you had this dreadful experience, as you call it, lately?
0	murmured the young man, going over to the window and leaning his forehead against the cold, mist-stained glass.
0	They have taken the sceptre of the Prince.
0	An alliterative prefix served as an ornament of oratory.
0	If a thing is so, it is so, and at present it is terribly cold.’ Terribly cold it certainly was.
0	"Don't talk like that about any one you love, Dorian.
0	I cannot accept this offer, Lord Caversham.
0	[CECIL GRAHAM _comes towards him laughing_.]
0	When he painted his Madonnas and infant Christs, he is not a great artist at all.
0	They did not mind his being ugly, a bit.
0	It is all Harry's influence.
0	As he was putting it into the envelope, a knock came to the door, and his valet informed him that the head-keeper wished to see him.
0	[_Leaning back with his hands in his pockets_.]
0	Come in, or the fog will get into the house.
0	It is, I regret to say, one of the Rector's most constant duties in this parish.
0	So the Swallow picked out the great ruby from the Prince’s sword, and flew away with it in his beak over the roofs of the town.
0	In any case, he said that the day he dies a misfortune will happen to some one.
0	He will represent the flawless type.
0	If he did, he would cease to be an artist.
0	[Enter Cecily at the back of the garden.
0	"It is the real Dorian Gray--that is all."
0	"But I thought it was my duty.
0	[_Passes her hand nervously over her brow_.]
0	The thing is soiled for me.
0	They must also be extraordinarily stupid.
0	But you mustn't talk about worship.
0	The blue depths were the colour of the darkest ultramarine; not a     cloud streaked the calm æther; only round the horizon’s edge streamed     a light, warm film of misty vapour, against which the near village     with its ancient stone church showed sharply out with blinding     whiteness.
0	The old-fashioned respect for the young is fast dying out.
0	Also he much loved to gaze at himself in the river.
0	"You have done too many foolish things during the last fortnight to be entitled to give yourself that name, Dorian," answered Lord Henry with his sweet melancholy smile.
0	She passed through the multitude, and touched them, and each man that she touched died.
0	I would not a bit mind sleeping in the cool grass in summer, and when winter came on sheltering myself by the warm close-thatched rick, or under the penthouse of a great barn, provided I had love in my heart.
0	We are rather late, as it is."
0	He was invented by Tourgénieff, and completed by Dostoieffski.
0	Your husband has never read it.
0	And I see you don’t know where the spring is.
0	I never take supper, thank you, Vicomte.
0	You must excuse me, Lady Chiltern.
0	But what is the good of friendship if one cannot say exactly what one means?
0	Because the best that he can give us will be but an echo of rich music, a dim shadow of clear-outlined form.
0	No one ever saw us hopping up and down the walks, or galloping madly through the grass after dragon-flies.
0	The sure way of knowing nothing about life is to try to make oneself useful.
0	I never quarrel with actions.
0	Then the Squibs danced all over the place, and the Bengal Lights made everything look scarlet.
0	save me—save me from him!
0	And I will be a better son to you than I have been.
0	But George came in for everything.
0	At the end of the hall hung a richly embroidered curtain of black velvet, powdered with suns and stars, the King’s favourite devices, and broidered on the colour he loved best.
0	We cannot re-write the whole of history for the purpose of gratifying our moral sense of what should be.
0	It is a delightful idea."
0	The cry was so horrible in its agony that the frightened servants woke and crept out of their rooms.
0	and you will find yourself worshipping sorrow as you have never worshipped joy.
0	most rising of our young statesmen .
0	He stabbed him twice more, but the man did not move.
0	And women represent the irrational.
0	You might have entered a solicitor's office.
0	The roses in the garden of the Queen of Arabia are not so white as thy body.
0	The stage becomes very dark.
0	Well, let us go to the Club?
0	Yes, he wears a sombre look.
0	Algy, you may turn round now.
0	You say that, you that are ever looking at my daughter, you that would have her dance for your pleasure?
0	"I knew you were following him when you rushed out from Daly's.
0	What you ask is impossible.
0	Most of the windows were dark, but now and then fantastic shadows were silhouetted against some lamplit blind.
0	This is indeed a surprise.
0	I am not punctual myself, I know, but I do like punctuality in others, and waiting, even to be married, is quite out of the question.
0	He found that he had passed his aunt's some distance, and, smiling to himself, turned back.
0	That is why it has no future before it, in this world.
0	But the Infanta was the most graceful of all, and the most tastefully attired, after the somewhat cumbrous fashion of the day.
0	Some subtle influence passed from him to me, and for the first time in my life I saw in the plain woodland the wonder I had always looked for and always missed."
0	My dear Rachel, I must candidly say that I think Gerald’s future considerably more important than your past.
0	It is very much in my way at home, and it is in such bad repair that I could not get anything for it if I sold it.
0	If it were not so, indeed, History would be quite unreadable.
0	The theory is certainly a very curious one, but to make it complete you must show that Nature, no less than Life, is an imitation of Art.
0	I know also that much is waiting for me outside that is very delightful, from what St. Francis of Assisi calls 'my brother the wind, and my sister the rain,' lovely things both of them, down to the shop-windows and sunsets of great cities.
0	"They don't know my name," he answered.
0	I am sure she is a virgin, she has a virgin's beauty.
0	You can take a seat, Mr. Worthing.
0	Now if Geoffrey had done the thing on purpose, how interesting he would be!
0	The State is to be a voluntary association that will organise labour, and be the manufacturer and distributor of necessary commodities.
0	"Only swell people go to the park."
0	We pass through the gate of the legend fatal to hope, and with pity or with joy behold the horror of another world.
0	If I ever did a crime, I would come and confess it to you.
0	You see that she has danced for me, your daughter.
0	They danced so beautifully that the tall white lilies peeped in at the window and watched them, and the great red poppies nodded their heads and beat time.
0	But no man dared look upon his face, for it was like the face of an angel.
0	Can he be sent for?
0	Think of what we owe to the imitation of Christ, of what we owe to the imitation of Cæsar.
0	He has let his sword fall.
0	If these elements of beauty are real, the whole thing simply appeals to our sense of dramatic effect.
0	"What are you looking for?"
0	Through the parted curtains of the window I see the moon like a clipped piece of silver.
0	He was conscious how inadequate one man was to bear the weight of that Titan and too vast orb.
0	MRS. CHEVELEY [_With a bitter laugh_.]
0	Oh, certainly, if it will give you any pleasure.
0	In fact, I believe I am more than usually tall for my age.
0	So kind of you to let me bring my friend, Mrs. Cheveley.
0	If there is, his work will not be good for him, will not be good in itself, and will not be good for others.
0	"Perhaps, after all, America never has been discovered," said Mr. Erskine; "I myself would say that it had merely been detected."
0	From the moment I saw you I distrusted you.
0	[_Enter_ LORD GORING _in evening dress with a buttonhole_.
0	"Have you had good sport, Geoffrey?"
0	Criticism is, in fact, both creative and independent.
0	Yes; but this isn't your cigarette case.
0	Well, that is no business of yours.
0	To lie in the soft brown earth, with the grasses waving above one's head, and listen to silence.
0	I’ll take it from you by force.
0	Only relatives, or creditors, ever ring in that Wagnerian manner.
0	John, have you got your overshoes on?
0	‘And I said to the priest, “Is this the god?”  And he answered me, “This is the god.” ‘“Show me the god,” I cried, “or I will surely slay thee.”  And I touched his hand, and it became withered.
0	He had not appeared in this disguise for more than seventy years; in fact, not since he had so frightened pretty Lady Barbara Modish by means of it, that she suddenly broke off her engagement with the present Lord Canterville's grandfather, and ran away to Gretna Green with handsome Jack Castletown, declaring that nothing in the world would induce her to marry into a family that allowed such a horrible phantom to walk up and down the terrace at twilight.
0	And how well it becomes us, Olivia!
0	GERALD _goes to table_ L.C.
0	Besides, he has the appearance of being rich, and the flowers he sends are lovely."
0	Shall we go onto the terrace?
0	At last, however, after a prolonged combat, during which several of the hobby-horses were gored through and through, and, their riders dismounted, the young Count of Tierra-Nueva brought the bull to his knees, and having obtained permission from the Infanta to give the _coup de grâce_, he plunged his wooden sword into the neck of the animal with such violence that the head came right off, and disclosed the laughing face of little Monsieur de Lorraine, the son of the French Ambassador at Madrid.
0	It enables us to see a Greek dressed like a Greek, and an Italian like an Italian; to enjoy the arcades of Venice and the balconies of Verona; and, if the play deals with any of the great eras in our country’s history, to contemplate the age in its proper attire, and the king in his habit as he lived.
0	But somehow, I feel sure that if I lived in the country for six months, I should become so unsophisticated that no one would take the slightest notice of me.
0	[_Rushes towards the curtain C._] MRS. ERLYNNE.
0	However, I believe that is quite a common occurrence nowadays and that they have to take in extra copies of _The Times_ at all the clubs in St. James’s Street; there are so many sons who won’t have anything to do with their fathers, and so many fathers who won’t speak to their sons.
0	It would have been impossible.
0	But his violent language could be heard all over the house!
0	[_C._]  Lady Windermere, you wrong me horribly—you wrong your husband horribly.
0	Because Art does not hurt us.
0	In the winter, also, he was extremely lonely, as the Miller never came to see him then.
0	The golden bees are silent on the thymy Hymettus; and the knelling     horn of Aurora’s love no more shall scatter away the cold twilight on     the top of Hymettus.
0	May I ask, Gilbert, to whom you allude?
0	Did you advertise for it?
0	Unless, of course, one wants to grow tired of him.
0	It’s best for me to see him before to-night.
0	It was carved out of ebony, and in stature was of the stature of a man.
0	The joy of Beatrice was my joy, and the sorrows of Cordelia were mine also.
0	What have I done to deserve this?
0	Why, the good woman thinks that I have nothing to do but to write cheques for her silly fads."
0	He doesn’t know you are here—he thinks you are safe in your own house.
0	That is what the police are for.
0	Where one had fancied that he had something to conceal, they have proved that he had but little to reveal.
0	And the other children, when they saw that the Giant was not wicked any longer, came running back, and with them came the Spring.
0	It will be such a surprise to her.
0	They are the elect to whom beautiful things mean only beauty.
0	George, don’t take Gerald from me.
0	You have told me that the world is a wicked place, that success is not worth having, that society is shallow, and all that sort of thing—well, I don’t believe it, mother.
0	I think it is rather vain."
0	Life is a question of nerves, and fibres, and slowly built-up cells in which thought hides itself and passion has its dreams.
0	I have not laid eyes on him for a week.
0	Why, even the theatrical managers of travelling companies brought their dramatic critics with them when they went on tour, and paid them very handsome salaries for writing laudatory notices.
0	It is the last of the Fates, and the most terrible.
0	Inexperienced though he was, he had still a strong sense of the danger of Sibyl's position.
0	It was selfish of her."
0	I am tired of myself to-night.
0	The next morning, however, when they came down to breakfast, they found the terrible stain of blood once again on the floor.
0	The mere fact of having published a book of second-rate sonnets makes a man quite irresistible.
0	And don’t make scenes, men hate them!
0	Æsthetics are higher than ethics.
0	Well, there _is_ a good deal to be said for blushing, if one can do it at the proper moment.
0	I distinctly told him so myself yesterday afternoon.
0	When could I have told her?
0	Read the whole book, suffer it to tell even one of its secrets to your soul, and your soul will grow eager to know more, and will feed upon poisonous honey, and seek to repent of strange crimes of which it is guiltless, and to make atonement for terrible pleasures that it has never known.
0	Cecily,--how could you have ever doubted that I had a brother?
0	Let me know yours, and I shall tell you mine.
0	Against the shell of her ear broke the waves of worldly cunning.
0	I delight in taking down from dictation.
0	The man stood waiting for his orders.
0	He never comes on the terrace.
0	Who knows but we may meet Prince Florizel of Bohemia, and hear the fair Cuban tell us that she is not what she seems?
0	I hardly think there will be much in common between you and my husband, Mrs. Cheveley!
0	He has wine of three sorts.
0	They are the little cups that can hold so much and no more.
0	We have nothing to fear from them.
0	Still in spite of everything he was not left unmolested.
0	I have not read it yet.
0	At last I discovered it in my husband’s dressing-room—he had stolen it.
0	She’s only very tired, that is all.
0	Delighted to see you, my dear father.
0	To-day the cry is for Romance, and already the leaves are tremulous in the valley, and on the purple hill-tops walks Beauty with slim gilded feet.
0	It belonged to Basil's best period.
0	“She was like a white rose before,” said a young Page to his neighbour, “but she is like a red rose now”; and the whole Court was delighted.
0	It is curiously limiting, too.
0	I am so glad to hear you say that.
0	With pleasure, Miss Prism, with pleasure.
0	She passed through the grove like a shadow, and like a shadow she sailed across the garden.
0	But she is decidedly pretty.
0	Once at least in his life each man walks with Christ to Emmaus.
0	I am quite sure of that.
0	He seemed determined to take me behind, so I consented.
0	He left me in anger.
0	On the reed-grown banks of that little stream strutted no ridiculous journalism monopolising the seat of judgment when it should be apologising in the dock.
0	However this may be, it is certain that the subject-matter at the disposal of creation is always diminishing, while the subject-matter of criticism increases daily.
0	I can’t find any one in this house to talk to.
0	Lord Illingworth, I want to speak to you for a moment.
0	I know perfectly well that I look quite plain after my German lesson.
0	There is blood spilt on the ground.
0	Had the portrait really changed?
0	It was for your sake she came here.
0	The growth of common sense in the English Church is a thing very much to be regretted.
0	Bored by the tedious and improving conversation of those who have neither the wit to exaggerate nor the genius to romance, tired of the intelligent person whose reminiscences are always based upon memory, whose statements are invariably limited by probability, and who is at any time liable to be corroborated by the merest Philistine who happens to be present, Society sooner or later must return to its lost leader, the cultured and fascinating liar.
0	I will not say the words the Church bids us to say.
0	We must not be premature in our judgments.
0	All the wild-dances he knew, the mad dance in red raiment with the autumn, the light dance in blue sandals over the corn, the dance with white snow-wreaths in winter, and the blossom-dance through the orchards in spring.
0	That makes us a civilised body.
0	The painter's absurd fits of jealousy, his wild devotion, his extravagant panegyrics, his curious reticences--he understood them all now, and he felt sorry.
0	Don’t you agree with me?
0	A tattered lace handkerchief twitched in her fingers.
0	More than his poor wife ever did.
0	But it was not so.
0	One must have some occupation nowadays.
0	She cleft the dusky air like an arrow.
0	Then he added, somewhat harshly, "You are the one man in the world who is entitled to know everything about me.
0	But they always insist on it!
0	[Lane is arranging afternoon tea on the table, and after the music has ceased, Algernon enters.]
0	And the people of the city looked curiously at him, and he grew afraid and said to his Soul, ‘Let us go hence, for she who dances with white feet is not here.’ But his Soul answered, ‘Nay, but let us tarry, for the night is dark and there will be robbers on the way.’ So he sat him down in the market-place and rested, and after a time there went by a hooded merchant who had a cloak of cloth of Tartary, and bare a lantern of pierced horn at the end of a jointed reed.
0	That word is ‘morbid.’  They do not use it often.
0	And often, I've been told, not even to her.
0	Let the people take stones and stone her.... Command him to be silent.
0	‘One evening I met some negroes carrying a heavy palanquin through the bazaar.
0	And he has married a most admirable wife.
0	Then, my dear boy, we may look on the thing as settled.
0	[_R.C._]  Your husband has never seen the letter.
0	The painter stared in amazement.
0	"It seems to me that we never do anything else," murmured Dorian.
0	you know that you will do what I ask of you.
0	However, tell me about your genius.
0	"No, Harry," answered the artist, giving his hat and coat to the bowing waiter.
0	The poor are wise, more charitable, more kind, more sensitive than we are.
0	Then the diver came up for the last time, and the pearl that he brought with him was fairer than all the pearls of Ormuz, for it was shaped like the full moon, and whiter than the morning star.
0	I have ever loved you....
0	You don’t understand what that means to me.
0	During the Season, father, I only talk seriously on the first Tuesday in every month, from four to seven.
0	It will grow naturally and simply, flowerlike, or as a tree grows.
0	"It is to adore some one."
0	I am afraid I have not been fortunate in my suggestions.
0	And now, as regards Algernon!
0	My dear fellow, it can't be helped.
0	I don’t wonder Lady Pagden was so anxious to get rid of her.
0	Yet would she never come near him that he might touch her.
0	It was a sigh of relief.
0	[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _takes the letter out of his pocket_.]
0	He should encourage us to have caprices, and forbid us to have missions.
0	"Alan Campbell, 152, Hertford Street, Mayfair."
0	After all, what is a fine lie?
0	Before my letter had reached her, she had run away with a man who deserted her in six months.
0	The laburnum will be as yellow next June as it is now.
0	You have told me there is no one there, so what reason can you have for refusing me?
0	The hot tears poured down his cheeks, and he tore the white rose to pieces.
0	asked his valet, putting an omelette on the table.
0	Is there such a thing?
0	Under the archway of a bridge two little boys were lying in one another’s arms to try and keep themselves warm.
0	"I believe in the race," she cried.
0	I have something to say to you."
0	The circumstances were as follows.
0	Imbedded in the wall was a huge iron ring, and chained to it was a gaunt skeleton, that was stretched out at full length on the stone floor, and seemed to be trying to grasp with its long fleshless fingers an old-fashioned trencher and ewer, that were placed just out of its reach.
0	Lady Windermere, Lady Windermere, don’t say such terrible things.
0	Ah, the dear pretty baby!
0	[Moving to her and shaking hands.]
0	Of course you are quite faithful to this woman you are in love with, Darlington, to this good woman?
0	To this question there is only one answer.
0	[_Every one starts and turns round_.
0	He had often told the girl whom he had lured to love him that he was poor, and she had believed him.
0	She said she didn’t wish to be disturbed.
0	It is a matter of the gravest importance, Phipps.
0	Then, stooping down and taking up the gold-and-purple hanging, he flung it right over the picture.
0	Besides, what sorrows have you now?
0	If Basil chooses to hide himself, it is no business of mine.
0	I have told you that there is no one in that room—that is enough.
0	She lacks the indefinable charm of weakness.
0	Shall we all go in?
0	Of course, culture has intensified the personality of man.
0	Still, it must be admitted that she has some beautiful notes in her voice.
0	I did not want any external influence in my life.
0	My wife is very good at it--much better, in fact, than I am.
0	He drank eagerly, and his thirst seemed to increase.
0	it is absurd to have a hard and fast rule about what one should read and what one shouldn't.
0	After he had drunk his cup of black coffee, he wiped his lips slowly with a napkin, motioned to his servant to wait, and going over to the table, sat down and wrote two letters.
0	I will give him mine.
0	He took a keen pleasure in pointing out to them that though they were always reading the law and the prophets, they had not really the smallest idea of what either of them meant.
0	Each new school, as it appears, cries out against criticism, but it is to the critical faculty in man that it owes its origin.
0	‘When the moon rose I saw a camp-fire burning on the plain, and went towards it.
0	He read it over twice, folded it carefully, and pushed it across the table.
0	What on earth are you so amused at?
0	An enormously wealthy merchant may be—often is—at every moment of his life at the mercy of things that are not under his control.
0	You need not shake your head:  you know you are.
0	It may be that I am too bound to him already, who, robbing me, yet left me richer, so that in the mire of my life I found the pearl of price, or what I thought would be so.
0	"It came to you crowned."
0	He made the soul the protagonist of life’s tragedy, and looked on action as the one undramatic element of a play.
0	The sodden eyes had kept something of the loveliness of their blue, the noble curves had not yet completely passed away from chiselled nostrils and from plastic throat.
0	_To sane people she is not reminiscent of any work of art_.
0	There is a horrible, a terrible courage.
0	They had been plucked at midnight, and the coldness of the moon had entered into them.
0	"My son, don't say such dreadful things," murmured Mrs. Vane, taking up a tawdry theatrical dress, with a sigh, and beginning to patch it.
0	My dear, Sir Robert Chiltern is dying to know you!
0	There were opals and sapphires, the former in cups of crystal, and the latter in cups of jade.
0	Not when they became poetry.
0	I will give thee the throne of thy mother.
0	There is something unfair about its use.
0	And what answer did you give him, dear child?
0	After the child was born she left him, taking the child away, and her life was ruined, and her soul ruined, and all that was sweet, and good, and pure in her ruined also.
0	It is Criticism, as Arnold points out, that creates the intellectual atmosphere of the age.
0	Cecily is about to retort.
0	I never saw a woman so altered; she looks quite twenty years younger.
0	As it now is, we cannot do so.
0	For two days I have been in terror.
0	Then bends, with a practised smile, to Cecily.]
0	No one but you, you know it.
0	Why, I don’t believe you have even got silver buckles to your shoes as the Chamberlain’s nephew has”; and she got up from her chair and went into the house.
0	"I hope you will be contented, James, with your sea-faring life," she said.
0	Robert, you don’t mind my sending you away?
0	They are hardly considered the thing.
0	The prison style is absolutely and entirely wrong.
0	Memory, my dear Cecily, is the diary that we all carry about with us.
0	As Dorian hurried up its three rickety steps, the heavy odour of opium met him.
0	"It must be, if you say it.
0	One of the priests came towards me and stood behind me.
0	She is excessively pretty, and she is only just eighteen.
0	I say nothing about the social mistake, which would have been abject--which, of course, I would not have allowed--but I assure you that in any case the whole thing would have been an absolute failure."
0	That awful memory of woman!
0	If you think of anything, you kill it.
0	But with regard to your statement that the Greeks had no art-critics, I assure you that is quite absurd.
0	How long do you remain in town?
0	What is the matter with this family?
0	And on the British intellect the illiterates play the drum.
0	“Let the fireworks begin,” said the King; and the Royal Pyrotechnist made a low bow, and marched down to the end of the garden.
0	We may not see it, save in a mirror that mirrors the soul.
0	I knew the church condemned _accidia_, but the whole idea seemed to me quite fantastic, just the sort of sin, I fancied, a priest who knew nothing about real life would invent.
0	It is Criticism that makes us cosmopolitan.
0	For archæology, being a science, is neither good nor bad, but a fact simply.
0	"How fond you are of saying dangerous things, Harry!
0	Get him to tell you how he sold to a stockbroker a Cabinet secret.
0	He was so unlike Basil.
0	Well, there’s nothing in the world like the devotion of a married woman.
0	The chief smiled, and showed me five heads fixed upon long reeds of bamboo.
0	He could not run such a risk of discovery again.
0	I get hungry for her presence; and when I think of the wonderful soul that is hidden away in that little ivory body, I am filled with awe."
0	It is a perfectly lovely afternoon.
0	A few weeks after this, the purchase was concluded, and at the close of the season the Minister and his family went down to Canterville Chase.
0	Life holds the mirror up to Art, and either reproduces some strange type imagined by painter or sculptor, or realises in fact what has been dreamed in fiction.
0	Lady Caversham is as usual, as usual.
0	Time must be traversed before the unity of effect is realised.
0	Princess, it were better to return.
0	He staggered under the burden of the empire.
0	In the garden-scene it had all the tremulous ecstasy that one hears just before dawn when nightingales are singing.
0	Nothing that he could do would cleanse him till he had told his own sin.
0	Jack and Algernon groan and walk up and down.]
0	These are very joyful tidings.
0	I have come from a modern country, where we have everything that money can buy; and with all our spry young fellows painting the Old World red, and carrying off your best actors and prima-donnas, I reckon that if there were such a thing as a ghost in Europe, we'd have it at home in a very short time in one of our public museums, or on the road as a show."
0	I adore it, but I am afraid of it.
0	But it was not merely the physical conditions of environment that had caused the change.
0	it is not so easy to be unpractical as the ignorant Philistine imagines.
0	Her white feet trod the huge press at which wise Omar sits, till the seething grape-juice rose round her bare limbs in waves of purple bubbles, or crawled in red foam over the vat's black, dripping, sloping sides.
0	It is the one thing that has in it the elements of life, of a new life, _Vita Nuova_ for me.
0	Accordingly, just as the dawn was touching the hills with silver, he returned towards the spot where he had first laid eyes on the grisly phantom, feeling that, after all, two ghosts were better than one, and that, by the aid of his new friend, he might safely grapple with the twins.
0	For of a truth pain is the Lord of this world, nor is there any one who escapes from its net.
0	The public were really very indignant.
0	Don’t find yourself longing for a London dinner-party?
0	this is the third time thou hast succoured me.’ ‘Nay, but thou hadst pity on me first,’ said the Hare, and it ran away swiftly.
0	I like persons better than principles, and I like persons with no principles better than anything else in the world.
0	Don’t imagine that your perfection lies in accumulating or possessing external things.
0	Byron was never able to give us what he might have given us.
0	I do not know anything in the whole history of literature sadder than the artistic career of Charles Reade.
0	It makes the noses of the young girls so particularly large.
0	“The fact is, that I told him a story with a moral.” “Ah!
0	Robert, it was not Mrs. Cheveley whom Lord Goring expected last night.
0	To be in it is merely a bore.
0	It can teach us how to escape from our experience, and to realise the experiences of those who are greater than we are.
0	He began to wonder if he and Basil Hallward had ever met, and, if so, what they had thought of each other.
0	And as for the People, what of them and their authority?
0	If Hamlet has something of the definiteness of a work of art, he has also all the obscurity that belongs to life.
0	“Quite dead,” whispered the Catherine Wheel, and she went off to sleep.
0	Even those that are born in England become foreigners after a time, don't they?
0	If you had done so, I certainly would not have listened to you; in fact, I should have said ‘Pooh,’ like the critic.
0	From time to time a huge misshapen cloud stretched a long arm across and hid it.
0	From some of the bars came the sound of horrible laughter.
0	That had stirred him at the time, and now, as he stood gazing at the shadow of his own loveliness, the full reality of the description flashed across him.
0	Greasy reflectors of ribbed tin backed them, making quivering disks of light.
0	Perhaps this might be a favourable opportunity for my mentioning who I am.
0	Women are never disarmed by anything, as far as I know them.
0	So he crept downstairs and opened the front door quite softly, and went out into the garden.
0	The folk don't like to have that sort of thing in their houses.
0	We are dominated by Journalism.
0	"And, when one has them on, they are so horrid."
0	Thirteen years before, when he was making his fine collection of majolica and Marc Antonios, he had forged the names of his trustees to a power of attorney, which enabled him to get possession of some of the money which he had inherited from his mother, and had brought into marriage settlement.
0	I remember it perfectly now.
0	Arthur, you must let me stay for five minutes.
0	[_Takes it from her_, _and_, _pulling out a green letter-case_, _puts the ornament carefully in it_, _and replaces the whole thing in his breast-pocket with the most perfect sang froid_.]
0	[_Enter_ LADY WINDERMERE _R._  _She goes over to_ MRS. ERLYNNE _with the photograph in her hand_.
0	The letter you wrote to Baron Arnheim, when you were Lord Radley’s secretary, telling the Baron to buy Suez Canal shares—a letter written three days before the Government announced its own purchase.
0	Her white hands were moving daintily among the cups, and her full red lips were smiling at something that Dorian had whispered to her.
0	In every tree that he could see there was a little child.
0	‘All Balzac’s characters;’ said Baudelaire, ‘are gifted with the same ardour of life that animated himself.
0	On reaching a small secret chamber in the left wing, he leaned up against a moonbeam to recover his breath, and began to try and realize his position.
0	That was the natural result of my loving you.
0	Don’t think I quite like this buttonhole, Phipps.
0	What would those modern psychological novelists, of whom we hear so much, say to such a theory as that?
0	There is a wide difference.
0	If it is indigestion, you will find it a most excellent remedy."
0	I am going to convert her, am I not?
0	The change will of course be slow, and people will not be conscious of it.
0	'You are not going to run away so soon, Mr.
0	So far I am satisfied.
0	Their test was always the spoken word in its musical and metrical relations.
0	London is very rich in curious effects of that kind.
0	From a window in the palace the sad melancholy King watched them.
0	Mrs. Daubeny will be quite jealous of you.
0	He had six attendants with him, each of whom carried a lighted torch at the end of a long pole.
0	Come out with us to the garden.
0	They bow and smirk and smile, and what the one says the other echoes with sickliest intonation.
0	A much better institution, of course.
0	Tell me—tell me right out.
0	[_Turns round and sees_ SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.]
0	They endure them as the inevitable, and as they cannot mar them, they mouth about them.
0	The spawn of Setebos gibbers in the corner, and Sebald, hearing Pippa pass by, looks on Ottima’s haggard face, and loathes her and his own sin, and himself.
0	how I loathe the Romans!
0	The fact is that we look back on the ages entirely through the medium of art, and art, very fortunately, has never once told us the truth.
0	‘At sunrise he went forth from his palace in a robe of silver, and at sunset he returned to it again in a robe of gold.
0	“Night after night have I sung of him, though I knew him not: night after night have I told his story to the stars, and now I see him.
0	You sold yourself for money.
0	Really, the thing should be more widely known!
0	Her beauty troubles us for a moment, and when, like a thing that falls through water, she passes away, we gaze after her with wistful eyes.
0	The English country gentleman galloping after a fox—the unspeakable in full pursuit of the uneatable.
0	I don’t think so now.
0	She used to wonder if he suspected anything.
0	Besides, now that I know you to be a confirmed Bunburyist I naturally want to talk to you about Bunburying.
0	But then the only things that one can use in fiction are the things that one has ceased to use in fact.
0	[Sitting down on the sofa.]
0	Change is the one quality we can predicate of it.
0	She would like them, and the rabbits that scurried about in the long fern, and the jays with their steely feathers and black bills, and the hedgehogs that could curl themselves up into prickly balls, and the great wise tortoises that crawled slowly about, shaking their heads and nibbling at the young leaves.
0	in horror and in contempt.
0	Mr. Isaacs has been very good to us, and we owe him money."
0	Mr. James Payn is an adept in the art of concealing what is not worth finding.
0	Then she would take to attending race-meetings, wear the most horsey clothes, and talk about nothing but betting.
0	The man who took me in to dinner talked to me about his wife the whole time.
0	In the making of fancies and jests he sees a chance of delay.
0	It took him the whole day to get there and back; and when he returned he was so tired that he went off to sleep in his chair, and did not wake up till it was broad daylight.
0	Indeed, he always lays stress on your German when he is leaving for town.
0	"Ah, Dorian, I am so glad you take it in that way!
0	"No, Harry," he said at last, "I did not get home till nearly three."
0	No one knew how deeply I loved and honoured her.
0	I’ll show it to you.
0	He was shivering with a kind of ague.
0	If by then you don’t do what I bid you to do, the whole world shall know the origin of Robert Chiltern.
0	You might just as well be a barrister, or a stockbroker, or a journalist at once.
0	"The fashionable substitute for belief."
0	I am always amused by the silly vanity of those writers and artists of our day who seem to imagine that the primary function of the critic is to chatter about their second-rate work.
0	Now it is for me to dictate terms."
0	He cared nothing for abstract discussions on the nature of the Beautiful, and the historical method, which has since yielded such rich fruit, did not belong to his day, but he never lost sight of the great truth that Art’s first appeal is neither to the intellect nor to the emotions, but purely to the artistic temperament, and he more than once points out that this temperament, this ‘taste,’ as he calls it, being unconsciously guided and made perfect by frequent contact with the best work, becomes in the end a form of right judgment.
0	[_Standing C._]  I sometimes wish you had.
0	You need hardly remind me of that, Ernest.
0	But it is not the moment to speak of such things.
0	There was no doubt that curiosity had much to do with it, curiosity and the desire for new experiences, yet it was not a simple, but rather a very complex passion.
0	You will always be as pretty as possible.
0	Come, dear, I must call at the rectory and inquire for Mrs. Daubeny, who, I am afraid, is far from well.
0	The gas-lamps grew fewer, and the streets more narrow and gloomy.
0	I will build it out of music by moonlight, and stain it with my own heart’s-blood.
0	I am not one of her admirers.
0	Oh yes, Robert, you should do that.
0	It would have taught you both better manners.
0	Do not speak such words to him.
0	I cannot understand how any one can wish to shame the thing he loves.
0	Harry, your views terrify me."
0	Indeed, there is but this difference between us—that he wears fine clothes while I go in rags, and that while I am weak from hunger he suffers not a little from overfeeding.’ ‘The land is free,’ said the young King, ‘and thou art no man’s slave.’ ‘In war,’ answered the weaver, ‘the strong make slaves of the weak, and in peace the rich make slaves of the poor.
0	I have been giving him the best of advice, Lady Hunstanton, and the best of cigarettes.
0	This man worketh true miracles.
0	More difficult to do a thing than to talk about it?
0	I gave him a little box full of perfumes, and a ring of agate that he wore always on his hand.
0	You know we are always at home on Wednesdays, and you look so well with your star!
0	How these men weary me!
0	This afternoon during my temporary absence in London on an important question of romance, he obtained admission to my house by means of the false pretence of being my brother.
0	"No, you don't feel it now.
0	I'll go to the stables myself.
0	She picks up the can and begins to water the flowers.]
0	We can only record its moods, and chronicle their return.
0	I knew nothing but shadows, and I thought them real.
0	[LORD WINDERMERE _hesitated for a moment and looks at_ MRS. ERLYNNE.
0	You cut life to pieces with your epigrams."
0	He has all the colour elements of life: mystery, strangeness, pathos, suggestion, ecstasy, love.
0	No pity had he for the poor, or for those who were blind or maimed or in any way afflicted, but would cast stones at them and drive them forth on to the highway, and bid them beg their bread elsewhere, so that none save the outlaws came twice to that village to ask for alms.
0	The employment of lance and shield, for instance, in actual warfare, which is so frequent in his plays, is drawn from archæology, and not from the military accoutrements of his day; and his general use of armour in battle was not a characteristic of his age, a time when it was rapidly disappearing before firearms.
0	Dorian Gray drew a long breath.
0	We are punished for our refusals.
0	Looking after their wives, Mrs. Allonby.
0	The painter was silent and preoccupied.
0	then it must be an illusion.
0	We will repeat yesterday's lesson.
0	With us, Thought is degraded by its constant association with practice.
0	“He is weeping for a red rose,” said the Nightingale.
0	She was made to be an ambassador’s wife.
0	[_Goes to the door of the drawing-room and opens it_.]
0	‘Five pieces of gold,’ he said, ‘and my nets, and the wattled house where I live, and the painted boat in which I sail.
0	He turned round, and leaning upon his elbow, began to sip his chocolate.
0	[Goes over to table and begins writing in diary.]
0	I may come with you, Robert, may I not?
0	She reels through the clouds like a drunken woman....
0	Over the portal of the new world, ‘Be thyself’ shall be written.
0	In France, in fact, they limit the journalist, and allow the artist almost perfect freedom.
0	The Baron taught me that .
0	I am coming to you.
0	Tell him to have this sent off in cipher at once.
0	Yes, it will be exactly three months on Thursday.
0	You should read this article, sir.
0	She ultimately was so broken-hearted that she went into a convent, or on to the operatic stage, I forget which.
0	As he passed out, the name on the brass door-plate of the surgery caught his eye.
0	And Death laughed, and took up a black stone, and threw it into the forest, and out of a thicket of wild hemlock came Fever in a robe of flame.
0	Listen to this:— ‘That some change will take place before this century has drawn to its close we have no doubt whatsoever.
0	It is sometimes said of them that they do not read all through the works they are called upon to criticise.
0	But there is a fashion in pasts just as there is a fashion in frocks.
0	"Poor Geoffrey is terribly upset.
0	I said it was perfectly heartless of you, under the circumstances.
0	To each of us different fates are meted out.
0	‘If poor Hans is in trouble I will give him half my porridge, and show him my white rabbits.’ “‘What a silly boy you are!’ cried the Miller; ‘I really don’t know what is the use of sending you to school.
0	Mrs. Cheveley puts a certain construction on that letter and proposes to send it to your husband.
0	Just as the worst slave-owners were those who were kind to their slaves, and so prevented the horror of the system being realised by those who suffered from it, and understood by those who contemplated it, so, in the present state of things in England, the people who do most harm are the people who try to do most good; and at last we have had the spectacle of men who have really studied the problem and know the life—educated men who live in the East End—coming forward and imploring the community to restrain its altruistic impulses of charity, benevolence, and the like.
0	But there are moments when one has to choose between living one’s own life, fully, entirely, completely—or dragging out some false, shallow, degrading existence that the world in its hypocrisy demands.
0	It is not pleasant to see one’s own butler, who has been with one for twenty-three years, actually blushing at the side-board, and the footmen making contortions in corners like persons in circuses.
0	There is something to me quite beautiful about her death.
0	Gardenias and the peerage were his only weaknesses.
0	Her face was veiled with a veil of gauze, but her feet were naked.
0	I don't wish you to."
0	‘Who is He of whom thou speakest?’ he asked.
0	[_Smiling as he strokes her hair_.]
0	Command him to be silent.
0	"I must speak, and you must listen.
0	I shall be in the conservatory under the second palm tree on the left.
0	But then the middle classes are not modern."
0	He was puzzled and anxious.
0	His beauty had been to him but a mask, his youth but a mockery.
0	"Anything that would tell his name?"
0	The driver beat at them with his whip.
0	If he proposed at the top of his voice, I should not mind so much.
0	He was simply but neatly clad in a long shroud, spotted with churchyard mould, had tied up his jaw with a strip of yellow linen, and carried a small lantern and a sexton's spade.
0	[Shakes Miss Prism's hand in a tragic manner.]
0	Even Harry, who was here, who brought me the news, in fact, had no idea what I was going through.
0	They passed words to each other as players at a game pass counters.
0	“He looks just like an angel,” said the Charity Children as they came out of the cathedral in their bright scarlet cloaks and their clean white pinafores.
0	cried Dorian Gray, laughing, as he sat down on the seat at the end of the garden.
0	I think I told you that the elect had revived it.
0	Hopelessly doesn't seem to make much sense, does it?
0	But there is still much to be done in the sphere of introspection.
0	cried Lord Henry, tilting his hat back and looking up at the little clouds that, like ravelled skeins of glossy white silk, were drifting across the hollowed turquoise of the summer sky.
0	Why do you say that?
0	Two red sparks flashed for a moment in the woman's sodden eyes, then flickered out and left them dull and glazed.
0	These disguises intensified his personality.
0	We are sometimes apt to think that the voices that sounded at the dawn of poetry were simpler, fresher, and more natural than ours, and that the world which the early poets looked at, and through which they walked, had a kind of poetical quality of its own, and almost without changing could pass into song.
0	Perhaps one never seems so much at one's ease as when one has to play a part.
0	I was going through the park last Sunday, and close by the Marble Arch there stood a little crowd of shabby-looking people listening to some vulgar street-preacher.
0	You are not to open it.
0	He should persistently compromise us in public, and treat us with absolute respect when we are alone.
0	If you really want to, of course, mother, but I must bid good-bye to Lord Illingworth first.
0	What brings you up to town?
0	_Scene_: _the library of a house in_                _Piccadilly_, _overlooking the Green Park_.
0	Oh, fight in any case—in any case.
0	There is one more passage, but it is purely practical.
0	Pray call on us when you come back!
0	The evening darkened in the room.
0	I made it thinking that public disgrace might be the result.
0	Now, don’t keep Mrs. Arbuthnot too long, Lord Illingworth.
0	She had marred him for a moment, if he had wounded her for an age.
0	You have enabled me to tell you the truth.
0	She lets her clever tongue run away with her sometimes.
0	Even the cardinal virtues cannot atone for half-cold _entrees_, as Lord Henry remarked once, in a discussion on the subject, and there is possibly a good deal to be said for his view.
0	Robert is a great champion of the Higher Education of Women, and so, I am afraid, am I. MRS. CHEVELEY.
0	That gets rid of him.
0	What did you do afterwards?
0	It was full of wine.
0	Our husbands would really forget our existence if we didn’t nag at them from time to time, just to remind them that we have a perfect legal right to do so.
0	Will you excuse me, Mrs. Arbuthnot?
0	There is a dance of reapers in rye-straw hats, and of rustics in hairy coats like satyrs; a masque of Amazons, a masque of Russians, and a classical masque; several immortal scenes over a weaver in an ass’s head, a riot over the colour of a coat which it takes the Lord Mayor of London to quell, and a scene between an infuriated husband and his wife’s milliner about the slashing of a sleeve.
0	Ernest proposed to me exactly ten minutes ago.
0	Let them both be branded.
0	If my wife found out, there would be little left to fight for.
0	It is premature to ask us to forgive analysis.
0	Nobody of any real culture, for instance, ever talks nowadays about the beauty of a sunset.
0	Is that the only thing, Jane, Mrs. Allonby allows to run away with her?
0	It is not to you I speak.
0	Yet it was not this alone that made him gloomy and morose.
0	"Where else should I be?"
0	He went to school at Charles Burney’s academy at Hammersmith.
0	Its sphere lessens every day.
0	The thing was still loathsome--more loathsome, if possible, than before--and the scarlet dew that spotted the hand seemed brighter, and more like blood newly spilled.
0	My father—my father really died of a broken heart.
0	Then the curtain rises, and you will see the girl to whom I am going to give all my life, to whom I have given everything that is good in me."
0	How quite, quite nice of them.
0	Nevertheless let us enter in.’  So they entered in and passed through the streets, and as they passed through the Street of the Sellers of Sandals, the young Fisherman saw a child standing by a jar of water.
0	‘He should certainly be kept indoors for the rest of his natural life,’ they said.
0	Sibyl, however, was quite unconscious of the effect she was producing.
0	All I want is a plain answer to my question."
0	Then he drew the screen aside and saw himself face to face.
0	High ambitions, too, if any ambition is high.
0	That insult, at any rate, you would have been spared.
0	Cæsar himself carries such an emerald when he goes to the circus.
0	No woman, plain or pretty, has any common sense at all, sir.
0	Besides, it is nothing to us.
0	Gwendolen drinks the tea and makes a grimace.
0	And how is your beautiful embroidery going on?
0	Show her into the drawing-room when she arrives.
0	Can’t you guess, mother, what I have written in this letter?
0	"Well, I am punished for that, Dorian--or shall be some day."
0	"Everybody I know says you are very wicked," cried the old lady, shaking her head.
0	It is naught to me.
0	In hypocrisy he had worn the mask of goodness.
0	Of course, if this gentleman is wealthy, there is no reason why she should not contract an alliance with him.
0	No; you see, to-morrow I am going to accept him.
0	He seemed to recognize his own brushwork, and the frame was his own design.
0	Dead lips have their message for us, and hearts that have fallen to dust can communicate their joy.
0	You want me to tell him that?
0	Tommy really does nothing but propose to me.
0	But no fish at all was in it, nor any monster or thing of horror, but only a little Mermaid lying fast asleep.
0	To begin with, I dined there on Monday, and once a week is quite enough to dine with one's own relations.
0	How long have you known it?
0	come back!” screamed the Rocket, “I have a great deal to say to you”; but the Duck paid no attention to him.
0	Gwendolen, I must get christened at once--I mean we must get married at once.
0	His sudden mad love for Sibyl Vane was a psychological phenomenon of no small interest.
0	Then, after his valet had reminded him several times of the lateness of the hour, he got up, and going into the next room, placed the book on the little Florentine table that always stood at his bedside and began to dress for dinner.
0	In matters of grave importance, style, not sincerity is the vital thing.
0	He was carried at once into the blue drawing-room and laid upon one of the sofas.
0	She has discovered a wonderful new genius.
0	The only people to whose opinions I listen now with any respect are people much younger than myself.
0	“I suppose they are reserving me for some grand occasion,” said the Rocket; “no doubt that is what it means,” and he looked more supercilious than ever.
0	Have you got it with you?
0	Want my cab round in twenty minutes.
0	A visit to Treadley would be a great privilege.
0	Believe me, Mrs. Cheveley, it is a swindle.
0	There are others who look at her too much.
0	After a strained moment of silence, he leaned across and said, very quietly, but watching the effect of each word upon the face of him he had sent for, "Alan, in a locked room at the top of this house, a room to which nobody but myself has access, a dead man is seated at a table.
0	The former you are now thrusting on him.
0	As an art-critic he concerned himself primarily with the complex impressions produced by a work of art, and certainly the first step in æsthetic criticism is to realise one’s own impressions.
0	Its gold would wither into grey.
0	The gentleman whose arm is at present round your waist is my guardian, Mr. John Worthing.
0	I know that perfectly well.
0	Marco Polo had seen the inhabitants of Zipangu place rose-coloured pearls in the mouths of the dead.
0	I was the baby you placed in it.
0	You never got it back?
0	[Gwendolen bites her lip, and beats her foot nervously with her parasol.]
0	To those who are in prison tears are a part of every day's experience.
0	The cloak-room at Victoria Station?
0	Were people to gape at the mystery of his life?
0	Dead at his feet it was lying.
0	It is of thy hair that I am enamoured, Jokanaan.
0	At some of the letters, he smiled.
0	Education is an admirable thing, but it is well to remember from time to time that nothing that is worth knowing can be taught.
0	In my country there are no gods left.
0	Like the gods of the Greeks, he would be strong, and fleet, and joyous.
0	I will not deliver him into your hands.
0	But--do you know?--he was not at all a bad servant.
0	To the æsthetic temperament the vague is always repellent.
0	He is a holy man.
0	We must go to the Ladies’ Gallery and hear him!
0	Look that my staves be sound and not too heavy— lines which had a double meaning for the audience, remembering the last words which Richard’s mother called after him as he was marching to Bosworth:—     Therefore take with thee my most grievous curse,     Which in the day of battle tire thee more     Than all the complete armour that thou wear’st.
0	She could have married anybody she chose.
0	In one moment their unity may be apprehended.
0	Such is the astounding stupidity of optimism.
0	The one man secures the produce of the machine and keeps it, and has five hundred times as much as he should have, and probably, which is of much more importance, a great deal more than he really wants.
0	Even to read of the luxury of the dead was wonderful.
0	The dead leaves that were blown against the leaded panes seemed to him like his own wasted resolutions and wild regrets.
0	I suppose he is afraid of her.
0	When he saw her he sank upon one knee, and kissed her hand.
0	When it shows us itself, it shows us the whole fiery-coloured world.
0	I don’t like compliments, and I don’t see why a man should think he is pleasing a woman enormously when he says to her a whole heap of things that he doesn’t mean.
0	It is not to her that I would speak.
0	It really is of no consequence, Lady Chiltern.
0	There is the despot who tyrannises over the soul and body alike.
0	I am punished for it.
0	but you are always sympathetic, Olivia!
0	I am so glad now I made that speech last night in the House, so glad.
0	I knew his mother intimately.
0	He was safe for the time.
0	journalism is unreadable, and literature is not read.
0	I have been thinking about nothing else.
0	And the mind of the thoroughly well-informed man is a dreadful thing.
0	Because, while I was painting it, Dorian Gray sat beside me.
0	Don't you see that accursed thing leering at us?"
0	She is a niece of Lord Brancaster’s.
0	How fascinating the lad was!
0	[_Sitting down on the sofa_.]
0	It is the world's original sin.
0	It is unpractical, and it goes against human nature.
0	Or rather we are both.
0	_Then starts up and puts on her cloak_.]
0	And being weary she sat her down under a chestnut-tree to rest.
0	“‘What a delightful time I shall have in my garden,’ he said, and he went to work at once.
0	I know that would be equally fatal.
0	Do you know, Lady Windermere, I am so sorry about your fan.
0	You are thinking of Lady Stutfield!
0	It is perfectly brutal the way most women nowadays behave to men who are not their husbands.
0	[In a very patronising manner.]
0	I would look closer at him.
0	In fact, you should be thinking about me.
0	Your uncle would have to dine upstairs.
0	said Dorian Gray, putting some perfume on his handkerchief out of a large, gold-topped bottle that stood on the table.
0	I mean that I am going to send Robert Chiltern the love-letter his wife wrote to you to-night.
0	When the wind blows over the roofs they rise and fall as painted bubbles do.
0	_White-gloved_, _he carries a Louis Seize cane_.
0	Money is not what I want.
0	What is a healthy, or an unhealthy work of art?
0	The thing was hushed up, but, egad, Kelso ate his chop alone at the club for some time afterwards.
0	LADY HUNSTANTON                     _Miss Rose Leclercq_.
0	Pour me forth wine [_wine is brought_].
0	Draw back the curtains and open the windows wide.
0	MR. MONTFORD, _a perfectly groomed young dandy_, MR. MONTFORD.
0	I can understand it being said that the constructive genius of the Greeks lost itself in criticism, but not that the race to whom we owe the critical spirit did not criticise.
0	What could they know of love such as ours?
0	[_Throws himself down into a chair_, _picks up a paper and begins to read it_.]
0	The Jews worship a God that you cannot see.
0	There are other countries than England .
0	I determined to commit suicide on the very day on which I left prison.
0	It was a garden full of doves and of silver lilies.
0	Each member of the society will share in the general prosperity and happiness of the society, and if a frost comes no one will practically be anything the worse.
0	My friend, you are a dreamer.
0	He had hateful memories of him.
0	I am afraid I don’t quite understand what you mean.
0	I am sorry I didn't see him.
0	He is dead, and you must come and see him.
0	Before a week was over he was to come across a large nugget of pure gold, the largest nugget that had ever been discovered, and bring it down to the coast in a waggon guarded by six mounted policemen.
0	As I passed by, I heard the man yelling out that question to his audience.
0	The soul is born old but grows young.
0	You don’t know what may be in store for you, unless you leave this house at once.
0	Arthur cannot bring Mabel the love that she deserves.
0	But you don’t mean to say that you seriously believe that Life imitates Art, that Life in fact is the mirror, and Art the reality?
0	You do, and you know that he loves you.
0	Mrs. Oliphant prattles pleasantly about curates, lawn-tennis parties, domesticity, and other wearisome things.
0	As for your conduct towards Miss Cardew, I must say that your taking in a sweet, simple, innocent girl like that is quite inexcusable.
0	It was now used as the council-room, and on the centre table were lying the red portfolios of the ministers, stamped with the gold tulips of Spain, and with the arms and emblems of the house of Hapsburg.
0	[_Starts as_ LORD WINDERMERE _enters_.]
0	Some southern wind of passion swept over her and stirred the dainty folds of her dress.
0	He knew the cry of every bird, and could call the starlings from the tree-top, or the heron from the mere.
0	She has had a loss in her family lately, which perhaps accounts for the lack of triviality your lordship complains of in the buttonhole.
0	The development of Mr. Wainewright’s style seems to me far more subtle and suggestive.
0	“Good heavens!” cried the Goose.
0	I suppose he is afraid of a scandal.
0	Perhaps he might refuse to come.
0	Do not yield, my daughter.
0	He calls to us, and we reject him.
0	In fact, if I may speak candidly-- Cecily.
0	"I am too fond of reading books to care to write them, Mr. Erskine.
0	For the next three days everybody went about saying, “White rose, Red rose, Red rose, White rose”; and the King gave orders that the Page’s salary was to be doubled.
0	When we do want change of air, we send for the gardener, and he carries us to another bed.
0	And when you pray, pray for me.
0	Many men on their release carry their prison about with them into the air, and hide it as a secret disgrace in their hearts, and at length, like poor poisoned things, creep into some hole and die.
0	Besides, of course, there is the question of your name.
0	He died before I was a year old.
0	‘Do not the sparrows die of hunger in the winter?’ she asked.
0	I like you already more than I can say.
0	But you have the secretary already, Lord Illingworth, haven’t you?
0	But I wanted so much to come and see you.
0	You have only a few years in which to live really, perfectly, and fully.
0	You hear what he says about you.
0	Lord Henry peered through his glasses, murmuring, "Charming!
0	Only triumph I am really interested in at present.
0	[_Takes up his hat and cane_.]
0	That could only be to me.
0	you don't know what it cost me to tell you all that I have told you."
0	And, indeed, the whole book seemed to him to contain the story of his own life, written before he had lived it.
0	The moment     rapidly approaches when, nearly torn asunder by His own weight,     fainting with loss of blood, which now runs in narrower rivulets from     His slit veins, His temples and breast drowned in sweat, and His     black tongue parched with the fiery death-fever, Jesus cries, ‘I     thirst.’  The deadly vinegar is elevated to Him.
0	“Every good story-teller nowadays starts with the end, and then goes on to the beginning, and concludes with the middle.
0	"Women are not always allowed a choice," he answered, but hardly had he finished the sentence before from the far end of the conservatory came a stifled groan, followed by the dull sound of a heavy fall.
0	The Divorce Court was specially invented for people whose memories are so curiously constituted.
0	But I'll run over the programme I've drawn out, if you will kindly come into the next room for a moment.
0	Each hideous detail came back to him with added horror.
0	Clergymen and people who use phrases without wisdom sometimes talk of suffering as a mystery.
0	Basil, let us have something iced to drink, something with strawberries in it."
0	‘A whipping master should be sent for,’ said Don Pedro wearily, and he went back to the terrace.
0	But I like talking to a brick wall—it’s the only thing in the world that never contradicts me!
0	But he was really neither one nor the other.
0	In a word, it comes from that monstrous and ignorant thing that is called Public Opinion, which, bad and well-meaning as it is when it tries to control action, is infamous and of evil meaning when it tries to control Thought or Art.
0	He was to be a nice sheep-farmer, and one evening, as he was riding home, he was to see the beautiful heiress being carried off by a robber on a black horse, and give chase, and rescue her.
0	On its forehead was a ruby, and thick oil dripped from its hair on to its thighs.
0	I dare say he fell into the Seine off an omnibus and that the conductor hushed up the scandal.
0	In doing what I am going to do--what you force me to do--it is not of your life that I am thinking."
0	I think it would do her so much good to have a short stroll with you in the Park, Dr. Chasuble.
0	[Follows Algernon round the room.]
0	This was the man Dorian Gray was waiting for.
0	It was always supposed that Christ talked in Aramaic.
0	This certainly was very strange, as the door was always locked at night by Mr. Otis, and the windows kept closely barred.
0	The absence of old friends one can endure with equanimity.
0	It seemed to him that he had been walking in fire.
0	It is my last reception, and one wants something that will encourage conversation, particularly at the end of the season when every one has practically said whatever they had to say, which, in most cases, was probably not much.
0	The author of the _Origin of Species_ had, at any rate, the philosophic temper.
0	I was afraid that I might lose your love, as I have lost it now.
0	The imagination is essentially creative, and always seeks for a new form.
0	And when he had passed through a garden of pomegranates and entered into the house, the merchant brought him rose-water in a copper dish that he might wash his hands, and ripe melons that he might quench his thirst, and set a bowl of rice and a piece of roasted kid before him.
0	I knew there must be some misunderstanding, Miss Fairfax.
0	I consider it was a great honour her coming to me last night.
0	Life doesn’t repeat its tragedies like that!
0	What other people call one’s past has, no doubt, everything to do with them, but has absolutely nothing to do with oneself.
0	The gods live thus: either brooding over their own perfection, as Aristotle tells us, or, as Epicurus fancied, watching with the calm eyes of the spectator the tragicomedy of the world that they have made.
0	For all sins, as theologians weary not of reminding us, are sins of disobedience.
0	I’m worn to a shadow.
0	You will never ask me to dinner again after saying this, I am afraid, Lady Narborough, but it is quite true."
0	You are just the same as every other woman.
0	I am sure that Cæsar himself has no birds so fair as my birds.
0	Do you know that I always work better after hearing the birds sing?’ “‘Well, I am glad of that,’ said the Miller, clapping little Hans on the back, ‘for I want you to come up to the mill as soon as you are dressed, and mend my barn-roof for me.’ “Poor little Hans was very anxious to go and work in his garden, for his flowers had not been watered for two days, but he did not like to refuse the Miller, as he was such a good friend to him.
0	Half their strength has been wasted in friction.
0	I am telling you the truth.
0	She is painfully natural, is she not?
0	You have never played so well as to-night.
0	They make one believe in the reality of the things we all play with, such as romance, passion, and love."
0	Mr. Ernest Worthing has just driven over from the station.
0	Behind every exquisite thing that existed, there was something tragic.
0	On a wall of fresh plaster, stained with bright sandyx or mixed with milk and saffron, he pictured one who trod with tired feet the purple white-starred fields of asphodel, one ‘in whose eyelids lay the whole of the Trojan War,’ Polyxena, the daughter of Priam; or figured Odysseus, the wise and cunning, bound by tight cords to the mast-step, that he might listen without hurt to the singing of the Sirens, or wandering by the clear river of Acheron, where the ghosts of fishes flitted over the pebbly bed; or showed the Persian in trews and mitre flying before the Greek at Marathon, or the galleys clashing their beaks of brass in the little Salaminian bay.
0	But in doing that he is acting in a perfectly natural manner.
0	"Dorian, Dorian," she cried, "before I knew you, acting was the one reality of my life.
0	Of course you understand that after your breaking your appointment I am never going to speak to you again.
0	"I will tell you some other time.
0	They have not got the charm of novelty."
0	All love is a tragedy.
0	The woman gave a bitter laugh.
0	‘Phew!’ they cried, as they lit upon the ground, ‘there is some one here we know not!’ and they sniffed about, and chattered to each other, and made signs.
0	From the artistic point of view, certainly.
0	The man had to touch him twice on the shoulder before he woke, and as he opened his eyes a faint smile passed across his lips, as though he had been lost in some delightful dream.
0	Our weakest motives were those of whose nature we were conscious.
0	[LORD GORING _returns from the conservatory_, _looking very pleased with himself_, _and with an entirely new buttonhole that some one has made for him_.]
0	He does not even require for the perfection of his art the finest materials.
0	Charles Dickens was depressing enough in all conscience when he tried to arouse our sympathy for the victims of the poor-law administration; but Charles Reade, an artist, a scholar, a man with a true sense of beauty, raging and roaring over the abuses of contemporary life like a common pamphleteer or a sensational journalist, is really a sight for the angels to weep over.
0	For these treasures, and everything that he collected in his lovely house, were to be to him means of forgetfulness, modes by which he could escape, for a season, from the fear that seemed to him at times to be almost too great to be borne.
0	With enamel or polished jewels he gave sight to the sightless eyes.
0	On a heap of sacking in the far corner was lying the dead body of a man dressed in a coarse shirt and a pair of blue trousers.
0	It was his first appearance, too.
0	"I asked the question for the best reason possible, for the only reason, indeed, that excuses one for asking any question--simple curiosity.
0	Besides, Jack is a notorious domesticity for John!
0	At last, liveried in the costume of the age, reality entered the room in the shape of a servant to tell the duchess that her carriage was waiting.
0	Lessee and Manager: Mr. George Alexander February 14th, 1895 * * * * * John Worthing, J.P.: Mr. George Alexander.
0	I feel as if you had soiled me for ever.
0	Tears came to his eyes as he remembered her childlike look, and winsome fanciful ways, and shy tremulous grace.
0	There was no help for it.
0	As for the uses Shakespeare makes of disguises the instances are almost numberless.
0	Thou shalt be as fair as a queen when thou wearest it.
0	I hope that Dorian Gray will make this girl his wife, passionately adore her for six months, and then suddenly become fascinated by some one else.
0	Miss Cardew's family solicitors are Messrs. Markby, Markby, and Markby.
0	We exist, then, to do nothing?
0	Prehistoric history belongs to the philological and archæological critic.
0	He told me why he wouldn't, and it was a revelation to me."
0	To a large extent the lad was his own creation.
0	Its beauty comes from the fact that the author is what he is.
0	the sort of woman a man never gets tired of.
0	Because you are like a pink rose, Cousin Cecily.
0	You will do me the justice to admit that.
0	you must suit your frock to his flowers, Gladys."
0	It has been a great inconvenience being without it all these years.
0	The paralysing immobility of a life every circumstance of which is regulated after an unchangeable pattern, so that we eat and drink and lie down and pray, or kneel at least for prayer, according to the inflexible laws of an iron formula: this immobile quality, that makes each dreadful day in the very minutest detail like its brother, seems to communicate itself to those external forces the very essence of whose existence is ceaseless change.
0	Finally he reached the corner of the passage that led to luckless Washington's room.
0	He had told her once that he was wicked, and she had laughed at him and answered that wicked people were always very old and very ugly.
0	"I am going to the park," he cried.
0	Mother, you have not been crying?
0	‘You must dance,’ he said, ‘_petit monsire_.
0	Towards evening a violent storm of rain came on, and the wind was so high that all the windows and doors in the old house shook and rattled.
0	I must admit that I was rather annoyed at the idea of seeing Shakespeare done in such a wretched hole of a place.
0	He will tell you more than I can."
0	The Emperor touched one of the walls and it opened, and we passed down a corridor that was lit with many torches.
0	For I feel that you are sure to change.
0	"Take that thing off the face.
0	She is very lovely, and if she knows as little about life as she does about acting, she will be a delightful experience.
0	As for what I said to you to-night, I said it for your good.
0	Arthur, do you despise me for what I have told you?
0	Popular authority and the recognition of popular authority are fatal.
0	The subject-matter at the disposal of creation becomes every day more limited in extent and variety.
0	They seemed to be able to give a plastic form to formless things, and to have a music of their own as sweet as that of viol or of lute.
0	he called out at the top of his voice.
0	Ah, that will do her so much good!
0	A rose shook in her blood and shadowed her cheeks.
0	Gerald, don’t go away with Lord Illingworth.
0	And the woman I love knows that I began my career with an act of low dishonesty, that I built up my life upon sands of shame—that I sold, like a common huckster, the secret that had been intrusted to me as a man of honour.
0	Costumes, of course, they are to the designer; but dresses they should be to those that wear them.
0	It is just because he has no new message, that he can do beautiful work.
0	In Sybil's own room they parted.
0	To have him sitting there!
0	It is strange, is it not?
0	Not necessarily, and certainly not at all if he recognises that each mode of criticism is, in its highest development, simply a mood, and that we are never more true to ourselves than when we are inconsistent.
0	He looked on wealth as an encumbrance to a man.
0	"One hour and a quarter, Monsieur."
0	It is thus that I will wipe out all wickedness from the earth, and that all women shall learn not to imitate her abominations.
0	I shall see her myself.
0	[_Moves to door R._]  No trouble at all, Mrs. Erlynne.
0	I didn’t say it as a matter of conceit.
0	He complained of a draught the whole time.
0	And all my armour laid into my tent?
0	Formerly we used to canonise our heroes.
0	And now about this woman, this Mrs. Cheveley.
0	I suppose so—but why Gerald?
0	But in order to avoid making any error I want you to tell me briefly the doctrines of the new æsthetics.
0	There was a cry heard, and a crash.
0	"I am charmed, my love, quite charmed," said Lord Henry, elevating his dark, crescent-shaped eyebrows and looking at them both with an amused smile.
0	Nor am I making any demands on life.
0	I hear she went to the Opera on Monday night, and told Tommy Rufford at supper that, as far as she could see, London Society was entirely made up of dowdies and dandies.
0	Of all possible objects I was the most grotesque.
0	Let us leave it here, and go our way, seeing that we are poor men, and have children of our own whose bread we may not give to another.’ But his companion answered him: ‘Nay, but it were an evil thing to leave the child to perish here in the snow, and though I am as poor as thou art, and have many mouths to feed, and but little in the pot, yet will I bring it home with me, and my wife shall have care of it.’ So very tenderly he took up the child, and wrapped the cloak around it to shield it from the harsh cold, and made his way down the hill to the village, his comrade marvelling much at his foolishness and softness of heart.
0	O mother, you are cruel.
0	I suppose you look upon me as quite an amateur.
0	[Goes back into the house.]
0	They savour of the heretical views of the Anabaptists, views that I have completely refuted in four of my unpublished sermons.
0	[Goes out, looking back at Jack.]
0	Life seizes on them and uses them, even if they be to her own hurt.
0	It is very kind of you, but Mrs. Daubeny never touches solids now.
0	_When he sees her_, _he starts back in wonder_.
0	Gerald Arbuthnot has told us of his good fortune; it is really most kind of you.
0	The chameleon-like colour, also, of the stain excited a good deal of comment.
0	I have an emerald, a great round emerald, which Cæsar's minion sent me.
0	Nowadays to be intelligible is to be found out.
0	I am tired of my expedition into the dim, dull abyss of facts.
0	She has done so already, indeed.
0	A woman will flirt with anybody in the world as long as other people are looking on."
0	I told you I was particularly fond of muffins.
0	He turned on his heel and left the room.
0	That night all doubts about the objective existence of phantasmata were removed for ever.
0	Besides, I don't suppose you will want your wife to act, so what does it matter if she plays Juliet like a wooden doll?
0	You’ll let me be your daughter?
0	He has no conception of what to do, and his folly is to feign folly.
0	On and on he glided, like an evil shadow, the very darkness seeming to loathe him as he passed.
0	Give him a mask, and he will tell you the truth.
0	But I did not mind that.
0	Pray point out Mrs. Cheveley to me.
0	She had proved an excellent wife to one of our most tedious ambassadors, and having buried her husband properly in a marble mausoleum, which she had herself designed, and married off her daughters to some rich, rather elderly men, she devoted herself now to the pleasures of French fiction, French cookery, and French _esprit_ when she could get it.
0	They always go to the bad.
0	Indeed, painting was the first art that fascinated him.
0	At another time he devoted himself entirely to music, and in a long latticed room, with a vermilion-and-gold ceiling and walls of olive-green lacquer, he used to give curious concerts in which mad gipsies tore wild music from little zithers, or grave, yellow-shawled Tunisians plucked at the strained strings of monstrous lutes, while grinning Negroes beat monotonously upon copper drums and, crouching upon scarlet mats, slim turbaned Indians blew through long pipes of reed or brass and charmed--or feigned to charm--great hooded snakes and horrible horned adders.
0	Tell me, is Dorian Gray very fond of you?"
0	It is a blind thing dependent on external influences, and moved by an impulse of whose nature it is unconscious.
0	I think it is so forward of them.
0	_He has the letter in his hand_, _and is reading it_.
0	"I felt all that you have said, but somehow I was afraid of it, and I could not express it to myself.
0	The critic will indeed be an interpreter, but he will not be an interpreter in the sense of one who simply repeats in another form a message that has been put into his lips to say.
0	Robert, you are excited, unnerved.
0	There was so much in you that charmed me that I felt I must tell you something about yourself.
0	Of course, there were a great many people between the present Lord Illingworth and the title, Mrs. Arbuthnot.
0	He loved his country—no man more so.
0	My wife, always kind and gentle to me, rather than that I should hear the news from indifferent lips, travelled, ill as she was, all the way from Genoa to England to break to me herself the tidings of so irreparable, so irremediable, a loss.
0	And danger has become so rare in modern life.
0	"Have you seen her to-day?"
0	The girl grew white, and trembled.
0	What a blessing it is that there is one art left to us that is not imitative!
0	When I last heard of them they were quarrelling still.
0	was the parrot-phrase flung in answer.
0	Drunkards had reeled by, cursing and chattering to themselves like monstrous apes.
0	The public have nothing to do with them at all.
0	I must see it at once."
0	Living, as you all do, on others and by them, you sneer at self-sacrifice, and if you throw bread to the poor, it is merely to keep them quiet for a season.
0	To Aristotle, with his passion for knowledge, this was the noblest form of energy also.
0	Of the child who, as far as you are concerned, might have died of hunger and of want?
0	You used to be ambitious for me.
0	My dear young lady, there was a great deal of truth, I dare say, in what you said, and you looked very pretty while you said it, which is much more important, Lord Illingworth would tell us.
0	‘Art,’ he tells us, in words that still move many by their ardent sincerity and strange fervour, ‘Art touched her renegade; by her pure and high influence the noisome mists were purged; my feelings, parched, hot, and tarnished, were renovated with cool, fresh bloom, simple, beautiful to the simple-hearted.’  But Art was not the only cause of the change.
0	I bought success at a great price.
0	Quite an important day in my life, isn’t it?
0	You should go to bed, Miss Mabel.
0	I should have remembered that when one is going to lead an entirely new life, one requires regular and wholesome meals.
0	"I can tell you, Harry.
0	His justice is all poetical justice, exactly what justice should be.
0	_On the right is the entrance to the music-room_.
0	My own personality has become a burden to me.
0	You remember the one I wore at Lady Hilstone's garden-party?
0	Our historical sense is at fault.
0	Two such charming women should know each other!
0	I know now I was wrong and foolish.
0	Soon they will go to sleep in the tomb of the great King.
0	A great friend of mine--a friend of ten years' standing--came to see me some time ago, and told me that he did not believe a single word of what was said against me, and wished me to know that he considered me quite innocent, and the victim of a hideous plot.
0	The sphere of the intellect?
0	“Be happy,” cried the Nightingale, “be happy; you shall have your red rose.
0	There are only two kinds of people who are really fascinating--people who know absolutely everything, and people who know absolutely nothing.
0	He did not even glance at the murdered man.
0	Tell her ladyship we are coming in.
0	We are often told that the poor are grateful for charity.
0	When poverty creeps in at the door, love flies in through the window.
0	He is just what I should have liked a son of mine to be.
0	We are childless, and I have no one else to love, no one else to love me.
0	Which do you find it?
0	Robert, it is not true, is it?
0	I am his wife, I have a right to look!
0	Two tiny slippers with big pink rosettes peeped out beneath her dress as she walked.
0	And how are we this morning?
0	But the button has come of your foil.
0	‘The robbers stole thee from me, and left thee to die,’ she murmured, ‘but I recognised thee when I saw thee, and the signs also have I recognised, the cloak of golden tissue and the amber chain.
0	Think as you like about me—say what you choose against me, but go back, go back to the husband you love.
0	He is even true to the characteristics of race.
0	Nobody is incapable of doing a wrong thing.
0	She is very beautiful to-night.
0	It represents to them a mode of Individualism, an assertion on the part of the artist that he selects his own subject, and treats it as he chooses.
0	There is no atonement possible.
0	"It was not intended as a compliment.
0	I had lost my name, my position, my happiness, my freedom, my wealth.
0	"I should think the novelty of the emotion must have given you a thrill of real pleasure, Dorian," interrupted Lord Henry.
0	In married life affection comes when people thoroughly dislike each other, father, doesn’t it?
0	In a moment of mental abstraction, for which I never can forgive myself, I deposited the manuscript in the basinette, and placed the baby in the hand-bag.
0	Until, of course, people are found out to be good.
0	With lips parted, and eyes dim with wonder, he sat idle in his boat and listened, listening till the sea-mists crept round him, and the wandering moon stained his brown limbs with silver.
0	"Nothing can cure the soul but the senses, just as nothing can cure the senses but the soul."
0	Augustus Dampier, who is a Fellow of King's College, Cambridge.
0	"You talk books away," he said; "why don't you write one?"
0	I have always said, dear Margaret, that you were the most morbid person in London.
0	and what a pity that in life we only get our lessons when they are of no use to us!
0	I have seen her die in the gloom of an Italian tomb, sucking the poison from her lover's lips.
0	I think I had better.
0	I left you because you refused to give the child a name.
0	Do you know, I don’t believe in the existence of Puritan women?
0	And the people laughed and said, ‘It is the King’s fool who is riding by,’ and they mocked him.
0	Through the rumble of omnibuses, and the clatter of street-cabs, he could hear the droning voice devouring each minute that was left to him.
0	What do other things matter?
0	For he grew proud, and cruel, and selfish.
0	The Academy is too large and too vulgar.
0	I assure you my life will be quite ruined unless they send John at once to the Upper House.
0	I’ll be back in a moment.
0	In the wolfskin of Pierre Vidal we flee before the hounds, and in the armour of Lancelot we ride from the bower of the Queen.
0	And every morning he called to the Mermaid, and every noon he called to her again, and at night-time he spake her name.
0	[_Coming up to_ MRS. ERLYNNE _and speaking in a low voice_.]
0	How do you do, Lady Windermere?
0	Dorian Gray threw his hat and coat upon the table and passed into the library.
0	But I have a price, pretty boy, I have a price.
0	Or are there more than one?
0	what are you doing here?
0	A third of our company died in battle, and a third died of want.
0	I don't actually know who I am by birth.
0	By its deliberate rejection of Nature as the ideal of beauty, as well as of the imitative method of the ordinary painter, decorative art not merely prepares the soul for the reception of true imaginative work, but develops in it that sense of form which is the basis of creative no less than of critical achievement.
0	As for the old Sundial, who was an extremely remarkable individual, and had once told the time of day to no less a person than the Emperor Charles V. himself, he was so taken aback by the little Dwarf’s appearance, that he almost forgot to mark two whole minutes with his long shadowy finger, and could not help saying to the great milk-white Peacock, who was sunning herself on the balustrade, that every one knew that the children of Kings were Kings, and that the children of charcoal-burners were charcoal-burners, and that it was absurd to pretend that it wasn’t so; a statement with which the Peacock entirely agreed, and indeed screamed out, ‘Certainly, certainly,’ in such a loud, harsh voice, that the gold-fish who lived in the basin of the cool splashing fountain put their heads out of the water, and asked the huge stone Tritons what on earth was the matter.
0	English women conceal their feelings till after they are married.
0	_She hears the last words and starts_.]
0	"Papa," said Virginia, quietly, "I have been with the Ghost.
0	Cheap editions of great books may be delightful, but cheap editions of great men are absolutely detestable.
0	Your dear mother will be delighted.
0	Remember that you’ve got on your side the most wonderful thing in the world—youth!
0	As the hall door shut, Campbell started nervously, and having got up from the chair, went over to the chimney-piece.
0	What a typical woman you are!
0	So we’re sure to agree.
0	To succeed one must have wealth.
0	little Virginia," they cried, "go back!"
0	To give himself up and be put to death?
0	You know that I love you, and you led me to believe, Miss Fairfax, that you were not absolutely indifferent to me.
0	I don’t wish to seem to interfere for a moment, Mrs. Arbuthnot, but as far as your last objection is concerned, I surely am the best judge.
0	But only in later years.
0	A week is more than enough.
0	And as she sang, all the tunny-fish came in from the deep to listen to her, and the young Fisherman threw his nets round them and caught them, and others he took with a spear.
0	Then I suppose it is my duty to remain with you?
0	He sat down and began to think.
0	He can have Ashby, which is much prettier, Harborough, which has the best shooting in the north of England, and the house in St. James Square.
0	Truth in art is the unity of a thing with itself: the outward rendered expressive of the inward: the soul made incarnate: the body instinct with spirit.
0	You don't seem to realise, that in married life three is company and two is none.
0	Were I fortunate enough to be Miss Prism's pupil, I would hang upon her lips.
0	And yet, I feel I am a little unfair in this matter.
0	We have been waiting for her in the Music-room, dear Lady Hunstanton.
0	Even Matthew Arnold, whose song of Callicles tells of 'the triumph of the sweet persuasive lyre,' and the 'famous final victory,' in such a clear note of lyrical beauty, has not a little of it; in the troubled undertone of doubt and distress that haunts his verses, neither Goethe nor Wordsworth could help him, though he followed each in turn, and when he seeks to mourn for _Thyrsis_ or to sing of the _Scholar Gipsy_, it is the reed that he has to take for the rendering of his strain.
0	Finally, they came to a great oak door, studded with rusty nails.
0	They wondered how one so charming and graceful as he was could have escaped the stain of an age that was at once sordid and sensual.
0	Since then--curious as it will no doubt sound--I have been happier.
0	He will not consent to be the slave of his own opinions.
0	The bear stood upon his head with the utmost gravity, and the wizened apes played all kinds of amusing tricks with two gipsy boys who seemed to be their masters, and fought with tiny swords, and fired off guns, and went through a regular soldier’s drill just like the King’s own bodyguard.
0	"I should like that awfully."
0	I always tell him that no younger son has ever had such good luck as he has had.
0	One has never heard his name before in the whole course of one’s life, which speaks volumes for a man, nowadays.
0	Through the dim purple air fly those who have stained the world with the beauty of their sin, and in the pit of loathsome disease, dropsy-stricken and swollen of body into the semblance of a monstrous lute, lies Adamo di Brescia, the coiner of false coin.
0	Besides, I want you to tell me why I should not go in for philanthropy."
0	I know what conscience is, to begin with.
0	Was the cause of death mentioned?
0	He took it—used it—spoiled it!
0	Every day for three hours he rattled on the roof of the castle till he broke most of the slates, and then he ran round and round the garden as fast as he could go.
0	She wants to get back into society, and she wants you to help her.
0	He was so extremely susceptible.
0	They found Washington and the twins waiting for them at the gate-house with lanterns, as the avenue was very dark.
0	She is like the shadow of a white rose in a mirror of silver.
0	He’s to call to-morrow at twelve o’clock!
0	Suddenly something happened that made me afraid.
0	Gertrude, there is nothing in my past life that you might not know.
0	But don't ask me to read anything to-night.
0	Lord Illingworth says that all influence is bad, but that a good influence is the worst in the world.
0	No one should be entirely judged by their past.
0	I think a man should look very, very strong, and that his chin should be quite, quite square.
0	How could I swear to love the man I loathe, to honour him who wrought you dishonour, to obey him who, in his mastery, made me to sin?
0	Do you want to know what this new world is?
0	I am going to limit myself, for the future."
0	There was a bright wood fire blazing in the large open hearth.
0	Who wants to be consistent?
0	There is a wide gulf between us now.
0	Society--civilized society, at least--is never very ready to believe anything to the detriment of those who are both rich and fascinating.
0	“‘It is quite mended,’ answered little Hans, coming down the ladder.
0	He stood there in the raiment of a king, and the gates of the jewelled shrine flew open, and from the crystal of the many-rayed monstrance shone a marvellous and mystical light.
0	He is sure to do it, then.
0	For every expectation that he fulfilled there was another that he destroyed.
0	I think we are all good, except Tuppy.
0	Child, if you did such a thing, there’s not a woman in London who wouldn’t pity you.
0	A woman who would tell one that, would tell one anything.
0	It is in the discontent that haunts Burne-Jones's women.
0	She opened her eyes, and saw the wall slowly fading away like a mist, and a great black cavern in front of her.
0	Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow, will you not bring her the ruby out of my sword-hilt?
0	Once in New York, you are sure to be a great success.
0	Death is the only thing that ever terrifies me.
0	Represents what is best in English public life .
0	cried Virginia, stamping her foot, "it is you who are rude, and horrid, and vulgar, and as for dishonesty, you know you stole the paints out of my box to try and furbish up that ridiculous blood-stain in the library.
0	Chiltern, I beg your pardon.
0	I have promised to meet a man at the Orleans.
0	"Oh, yes, horrid people with dyed hair and painted faces."
0	You cannot honour me, unless she’s holier to you.
0	Of course, form and substance cannot be separated in a work of art; they are always one.
0	Or the want of it in the man.
0	Because he leads such an idle life.
0	You see the winter was a very bad time for me, and I really had no money at all to buy bread with.
0	I am not at all romantic.
0	She consoled herself by telling Sibyl how desolate she felt her life would be, now that she had only one child to look after.
0	But you know how unfair people often are.
0	"That entirely depends on how you sit to-day, Dorian."
0	I did not spy on you.
0	You admit it was romantic, don’t you?
0	Do you think it is quite charming of you to be so rude to a woman in your own house?
0	It was made of gilded bamboo, and the poles were of vermilion lacquer studded with brass peacocks.
0	He treated worldly success as a thing absolutely to be despised.
0	[_To Herodias._] You see how you have brought up this daughter of yours.
0	He met them with a defiant stare, Forster tells us, but Macready was ‘horrified to recognise a man familiarly known to him in former years, and at whose table he had dined.’ Others had more curiosity, and his cell was for some time a kind of fashionable lounge.
0	I can be perfectly happy by myself.
0	What is true about Art is true about Life.
0	In niches upon each side stood great wine-jars filled to the brim with silver pieces.
0	How long will you like me?
0	The little Princess had never seen a firework in her life, so the King had given orders that the Royal Pyrotechnist should be in attendance on the day of her marriage.
0	It is the privilege of people who have nothing to do.
0	Besides, you forget, Mr. Otis, that you took the furniture and the ghost at a valuation, and anything that belonged to the ghost passed at once into your possession, as, whatever activity Sir Simon may have shown in the corridor at night, in point of law he was really dead, and you acquired his property by purchase."
0	We tread upon the cold crystal of Cocytus, in which traitors stick like straws in glass.
0	He feels it is his duty.
0	Don’t trouble, Miss Worsley, I can wait.
0	Yet did it not prevail against him, so great was the power of his love.
0	But I am interested to hear she does not love you.
0	I do not feel it, nor will I ever stand before God’s altar and ask God’s blessing on so hideous a mockery as a marriage between me and George Harford.
0	Then they passed by lonely brickfields.
0	When he stumbled into the arena, waddling on his crooked legs and wagging his huge misshapen head from side to side, the children went off into a loud shout of delight, and the Infanta herself laughed so much that the Camerera was obliged to remind her that although there were many precedents in Spain for a King’s daughter weeping before her equals, there were none for a Princess of the blood royal making so merry before those who were her inferiors in birth.
0	He was dreadfully short-sighted, and there is no pleasure in taking in a husband who never sees anything."
0	Some day you will meet him--when you come back from Australia.
0	If it is attended to, there may be a new Renaissance of Art.
0	Lord Illingworth in very good, I am sure, to interest himself in you for the moment.
0	I owe him a great deal.
0	When one has found expression for a mood, one has done with it.
0	How can you say such horrible things?
0	It is like the bow of the King of the Persians, that is painted with vermilion, and is tipped with coral.
0	"I am searching for peace," she said, "and if I don't go and dress, I shall have none this evening."
0	Ignorance is like a delicate exotic fruit; touch it and the bloom is gone.
0	Her flowerlike lips touched the withered cheek and warmed its frost.
0	And yet Tartuffe’s articles and Chadband’s notes do this good, at least.
0	Dorian Gray frowned and turned his head away.
0	Perhaps there may come into my art also, no less than into my life, a still deeper note, one of greater unity of passion, and directness of impulse.
0	"Do you feel quite sure of that, Dorian?"
0	I know there are dreadful places in Paris, but Basil was not the sort of man to have gone to them.
0	War followed upon war, and the tradesman’s creed did not prevent France and Germany from clashing together in blood-stained battle.
0	There is property at stake.
0	One he put in his pocket, the other he handed to the valet.
0	Round and round her swam the dolphins, and the wild gulls wheeled above her head.
0	That certainly seems a satisfactory explanation, does it not?
0	Fill with wine the great goblets of silver, and the great goblets of glass.
0	Such, at any rate, was Dorian Gray's opinion.
0	Lord Henry shrugged his shoulders.
0	Would you choose me for a mother?
0	Sin should be solitary, and have no accomplices.
0	But beauty, real beauty, ends where an intellectual expression begins.
0	When he had stretched himself on the sofa, he looked at the title-page of the book.
0	And I would like to be allowed to take advantage of Lady Bracknell's temporary absence .
0	My dear Rachel, intellectual generalities are always interesting, but generalities in morals mean absolutely nothing.
0	After breakfast, he walked with the duchess for an hour in the garden and then drove across the park to join the shooting-party.
0	Salomé, come and sit next to me.
0	Howbeit, Cæsar is lord, he will come if he wishes.
0	He frowned, and tearing the paper in two, went across the room and flung the pieces away.
0	Why can’t you women love us, faults and all?
0	It’s the same thing, nowadays.
0	As the shuttles dashed through the warp they lifted up the heavy battens, and when the shuttles stopped they let the battens fall and pressed the threads together.
0	The Infanta of Spain and the Indies wishes to be amused.’ But the little Dwarf never moved.
0	Is Lady Chiltern as perfect as all that?
0	Pass on to the poem on the man who tortures himself, let its subtle music steal into your brain and colour your thoughts, and you will become for a moment what he was who wrote it; nay, not for a moment only, but for many barren moonlit nights and sunless sterile days will a despair that is not your own make its dwelling within you, and the misery of another gnaw your heart away.
0	The sitter is merely the accident, the occasion.
0	His unreal and selfish love would yield to some higher influence, would be transformed into some nobler passion, and the portrait that Basil Hallward had painted of him would be a guide to him through life, would be to him what holiness is to some, and conscience to others, and the fear of God to us all.
0	All through your life you will tell me everything you do."
0	I’ll search your rooms, and if my wife’s here, I’ll—  [_Moves_.]
0	I don’t suppose there is the smallest chance of her accepting you.
0	To me, beauty is the wonder of wonders.
0	Lord Henry had the charm of being very dangerous.
0	You would stand anything rather than face the censure of a world, whose praise you would despise.
0	And so, on the morning of the day you marry me, I will give you Robert Chiltern’s letter.
0	By its means he has planted round his garden a hedge full of thorns, and red with wonderful roses.
0	I have forgotten all about my schooldays.
0	do you really think that is what Mrs. Cheveley meant?
0	that is always a nice distraction, in it not?
0	Go back to my husband, Mrs. Erlynne.
0	The prayer of your repentance will be answered also.
0	It is Beatrice, the woman we have worshipped.
0	Agatha has told me everything.
0	I forbid you to open it.
0	How wittily would he mistake your meaning, and put in a conceit most     seasonably out of season.
0	_Lamia-like_, _she is in green and silver_.
0	I shan't be away more than half an hour.
0	He is keenly sensitive to the value of beautiful surroundings, and never wearies of describing to us the rooms in which he lived, or would have liked to live.
0	"You are really very comforting," warbled the duchess.
0	[Enter Algernon, very gay and debonnair.]
0	The Blue-Book is rapidly becoming his ideal both for method and manner.
0	It was absolutely shameless, the whole thing.
0	It was not too late to make reparation for that.
0	And agnosticism should have its ritual no less than faith.
0	And the worst of it all is that I have been told that this woman has got a great deal of money out of somebody, for it seems that she came to London six months ago without anything at all to speak of, and now she has this charming house in Mayfair, drives her ponies in the Park every afternoon and all—well, all—since she has known poor dear Windermere.
0	They are a wearisome topic, and I am anxious to get back to the sphere in which criticism is free.
0	Lord Goring, I never believe a single word that either you or I say to each other.
0	You are ruined, that is all!
0	Let us go and look at it.
0	The next day I bought this little ring in your name, and this is the little bangle with the true lover's knot I promised you always to wear.
0	Somehow it doesn’t go with modern dress.
0	Tell Parker not to trouble.
0	What did Sir John talk to you about, dear Mrs. Allonby?
0	And to him all the arts were one.
0	The mode of thought that Cardinal Newman represented—if that can be called a mode of thought which seeks to solve intellectual problems by a denial of the supremacy of the intellect—may not, cannot, I think, survive.
0	Algernon, of course, can choose for himself.
0	I don’t think any one at all morally responsible for what he or she does at an English country house.
0	Or at least they should not.
0	The harsh caw of the busy rooks came pleasantly mellowed from a high     dusky grove of elms at some distance off, and at intervals was heard     the voice of a boy scaring away the birds from the newly-sown seeds.
0	You hold it in your hand, and reverse it to please a wilful fancy.
0	I have been waiting for it all the evening.
0	I had no clue, no trace.
0	[_Puts on cloak and goes to the door_, _then turns back_.
0	"I don't believe that, Harry, and I don't believe you do either.
0	I am pleased to hear it.
0	Hugo's _Les Miserables_, Baudelaire's _Fleurs du Mal_, the note of pity in Russian novels, Verlaine and Verlaine's poems, the stained glass and tapestries and the quattro-cento work of Burne-Jones and Morris, belong to him no less than the tower of Giotto, Lancelot and Guinevere, Tannhauser, the troubled romantic marbles of Michael Angelo, pointed architecture, and the love of children and flowers--for both of which, indeed, in classical art there was but little place, hardly enough for them to grow or play in, but which, from the twelfth century down to our own day, have been continually making their appearances in art, under various modes and at various times, coming fitfully and wilfully, as children, as flowers, are apt to do: spring always seeming to one as if the flowers had been in hiding, and only came out into the sun because they were afraid that grown up people would grow tired of looking for them and give up the search; and the life of a child being no more than an April day on which there is both rain and sun for the narcissus.
0	Some of it is in _The Happy Prince_, some of it in _The Young King_, notably in the passage where the bishop says to the kneeling boy, 'Is not He who made misery wiser than thou art'?
0	"I don't know," answered Lord Henry.
0	He stood before the image of Christ, and on his right hand and on his left were the marvellous vessels of gold, the chalice with the yellow wine, and the vial with the holy oil.
0	We have certain accomplishments, and that is more than sufficient.
0	A new Cæsar stalked through the streets of risen Rome, and with purple sail and flute-led oars another Cleopatra passed up the river to Antioch.
0	Suppose, for instance, anything happened to me to-night, what a misfortune that would be for every one!
0	Where one had hoped that Browning was a mystic they have sought to show that he was simply inarticulate.
0	The little ducks were swimming about in the pond, looking just like a lot of yellow canaries, and their mother, who was pure white with real red legs, was trying to teach them how to stand on their heads in the water.
0	“A person who, because he has corns himself, always treads on other people’s toes,” answered the Roman Candle in a low whisper; and the Cracker nearly exploded with laughter.
0	It seems so stupid, so obvious, so unnecessary.
0	And such I think I have become.
0	Thou wouldst have none of me, Jokanaan.
0	Personally, darling, to speak quite candidly, I don't much care about the name of Ernest .
0	I can't bear the idea of my soul being hideous."
0	You might carry the fan.
0	The question is whether it would be for the good of Individualism that such an advantage should be taken away.
0	Her love was trembling in laughter on her lips.
0	People sometimes say that fiction is getting too morbid.
0	Then I am sorry I did not stay away longer.
0	It was a most clear example of this imitative instinct of which I was speaking, and an extremely tragic one.
0	And I think it is a pity that so many critics should have set themselves to attack one of the most important movements on the modern stage before that movement has at all reached its proper perfection.
0	"I believe he thinks that Monmouth married me on purely scientific principles as the best specimen he could find of a modern butterfly."
0	Her eldest son, christened Washington by his parents in a moment of patriotism, which he never ceased to regret, was a fair-haired, rather good-looking young man, who had qualified himself for American diplomacy by leading the German at the Newport Casino for three successive seasons, and even in London was well known as an excellent dancer.
0	"I give you one minute to make your peace--no more.
0	Nature, M. Renan tells us, cares little about chastity, and it may be that it is to the shame of the Magdalen, and not to their own purity, that the Lucretias of modern life owe their freedom from stain.
0	You have changed, of course, but not in appearance.
0	And what have you been writing about this morning, Mr. Kelvil?
0	Perhaps she was in the room beyond.
0	I read all your English newspapers.
0	And we men are so self-sacrificing that we never use it, do we, father?
0	She knows what that word means.
0	Oh, all of them, my dear, all of them, without any exception.
0	[_Sees_ LADY WINDERMERE’S _fan on sofa_.]
0	That woman in heliotrope, who has just gone out of the room with your brother?
0	A twisted flash of pain shot across the painter's face.
0	The interference of the Censor has seldom been more popular or more heartily endorsed by English critics.
0	And his Soul said to him, ‘Let us not tarry, but get hence at once, for the Sea-gods are jealous, and have monsters that do their bidding.’                                 * * * * * So they made haste, and all that night they journeyed beneath the moon, and all the next day they journeyed beneath the sun, and on the evening of the day they came to a city.
0	* * * * *                                 * * * * *
0	It must be terribly, terribly distressing to be in debt.
0	But in a manner not yet understood of the world he regarded sin and suffering as being in themselves beautiful holy things and modes of perfection.
0	You had much better say a severe chill.
0	To play for his delight!
0	She is like a dove that has strayed.... She is like a narcissus trembling in the wind.... She is like a silver flower.
0	They paint what the public sees, and the public never sees anything.
0	He struck at it, and it returned blow for blow.
0	Apprised, sir, of my daughter's sudden flight by her trusty maid, whose confidence I purchased by means of a small coin, I followed her at once by a luggage train.
0	Mr. Ernest Worthing and I are engaged to be married.
0	I feel that every woman here sneers at me as she dances by with my husband.
0	The sunset had smitten into scarlet gold the upper windows of the houses opposite.
0	Is that quite a nice subject?
0	It is almost as bad as the way Gwendolen flirts with you.
0	If one loves Art at all, one must love it beyond all other things in the world, and against such love, the reason, if one listened to it, would cry out.
0	"It is extraordinary to me, Dorian," said Hallward, "that you should have seen this in the portrait.
0	He had hardly, however, gone a couple of miles, when he heard somebody galloping after him, and, looking round, saw the little Duke coming up on his pony, with his face very flushed, and no hat.
0	They would make you far too conceited.
0	Time seemed to him to be crawling with feet of lead, while he by monstrous winds was being swept towards the jagged edge of some black cleft of precipice.
0	Table C. with syphons, glasses, and Tantalus frame_.
0	More than enough is as good as a feast."
0	Thou didst treat me as a harlot, as a wanton, me, Salomé, daughter of Herodias, Princess of Judæa!
0	How utterly unromantic you are!
0	You are simply jealous and unkind.
0	“Really it is quite like a croak, and croaking is of course the most musical sound in the world.
0	This world and I are on excellent terms."
0	"I shan't trouble you any more now.
0	It made him a more interesting study.
0	I surrounded myself with the smaller natures and the meaner minds.
0	Ruy Blas talks of M, de Priego as ‘sujet du roi’ instead of ‘noble du roi,’ and Angelo Malipieri speaks of ‘la croix rouge’ instead of ‘la croix de gueules.’  But they are concessions made to the public, or rather to a section of it.
0	He has gone up to buy your outfit.
0	The work of art is to dominate the spectator: the spectator is not to dominate the work of art.
0	My dear, you really mustn’t talk like that in this house.
0	We have both been punished.
0	People sometimes say that actors give us their own Hamlets, and not Shakespeare’s; and this fallacy—for it is a fallacy—is, I regret to say, repeated by that charming and graceful writer who has lately deserted the turmoil of literature for the peace of the House of Commons, I mean the author of _Obiter Dicta_.
0	But I haven't got a cough.
0	For he is most careful to tell us the dress and appearance of each character.
0	So far from being the creation of its time, it is usually in direct opposition to it, and the only history that it preserves for us is the history of its own progress.
0	His little dinners, in the settling of which Lord Henry always assisted him, were noted as much for the careful selection and placing of those invited, as for the exquisite taste shown in the decoration of the table, with its subtle symphonic arrangements of exotic flowers, and embroidered cloths, and antique plate of gold and silver.
0	She can’t even hear my sermons now.
0	Yes; there is really no end to the consolations that women find in modern life.
0	But it is exactly the existing conditions that one objects to; and any scheme that could accept these conditions is wrong and foolish.
0	I will not do it.
0	It is tainted with egotism.
0	From cell to cell of his brain crept the one thought; and the wild desire to live, most terrible of all man's appetites, quickened into force each trembling nerve and fibre.
0	In the meantime, you had better go back to your wearisome uncomfortable Nature, and leave me to correct my proofs.
0	They say that you corrupt every one with whom you become intimate, and that it is quite sufficient for you to enter a house for shame of some kind to follow after.
0	Fancy, Jim, to be in love and play Juliet!
0	[_With a touch of bitterness_.]
0	Get ye down into this cistern and bring me the head of this man.
0	‘To-night thou must come to the top of the mountain,’ she whispered.
0	“My roses are red,” it answered, “as red as the feet of the dove, and redder than the great fans of coral that wave and wave in the ocean-cavern.
0	[_Tears letter open and reads it_, _then sinks down into a chair with a gesture of anguish_.]
0	Then that is all quite settled, is it not?
0	_kindly_, _popular woman_, _with gray hair à la marquise and good lace_.
0	I feel sure that in elemental forces there is purification, and I want to go back to them and live in their presence.
0	[_Pointing at him with outstretched finger_.]
0	But the modern world has schemes.
0	What excuse can you give to him for making him decline such an offer as mine?
0	[LADY WINDERMERE _hides herself behind the curtain_.]
0	He held the door open for them, and they passed out into the hall and began the ascent.
0	she hiccoughed, in a hoarse voice.
0	She was quite devoted to him.
0	I am more than content with what Mr. Moncrieff said.
0	He had been always enthralled by the methods of natural science, but the ordinary subject-matter of that science had seemed to him trivial and of no import.
0	If he can think, he will probably think differently.
0	Thine eyes that were so terrible, so full of rage and scorn, are shut now.
0	It might escape the hideousness of sin, but the hideousness of age was in store for it.
0	I am sick to death of cleverness.
0	You must remember his constant anxiety about that unfortunate young man his brother.
0	"Well, Dorian," he said at length, with a sad smile, "I won't speak to you again about this horrible thing, after to-day.
0	You are well suited to each other.
0	"They are more cunning than practical.
0	They tried to play on the road, but the road was very dusty and full of hard stones, and they did not like it.
0	I don’t know if that is the ordinary ending, mother: I hope it is not.
0	Don't keep Dorian too long.
0	"Basil, my dear boy, puts everything that is charming in him into his work.
0	"I suppose it would," muttered the lad, walking up and down the room and looking horribly pale.
0	Ordinary people waited till life disclosed to them its secrets, but to the few, to the elect, the mysteries of life were revealed before the veil was drawn away.
0	Then he wrote a note to Lord Henry, telling him that he was going up to town to consult his doctor and asking him to entertain his guests in his absence.
0	Indeed, what right had Basil to have spoken to him as he had done?
0	Of course, we have to a very great extent got rid of any attempt on the part of the community, or the Church, or the Government, to interfere with the individualism of speculative thought, but the attempt to interfere with the individualism of imaginative art still lingers.
0	At that time I was poor; you were rich.
0	Grass is hard and lumpy and damp, and full of dreadful black insects.
0	In the mere loveliness of the materials employed there are latent elements of culture.
0	When I was old, perhaps.
0	Nor, indeed, was it the death of Basil Hallward that weighed most upon his mind.
0	If Kent's silly son takes his wife from the streets, what is that to me?
0	I have no character left at all.
0	Oh, yes, she’s always going to church.
0	We work together, in fact.
0	Especially at such an early hour in the day.
0	What Jesus meant, was this.
0	Through its intensified assertion of individualism, it saves us from monotony of type.
0	Well, you shall hold my bouquet.
0	You had much better dine with your Aunt Augusta.
0	The eyes of the Happy Prince were filled with tears, and tears were running down his golden cheeks.
0	The Nazarenes fall on their knees and begin to pray._] Ah!
0	I’m afraid it is very flattering—I am not so pretty as that.
0	In him the culture of the century will see itself realised.
0	For both of us a new life is beginning.
0	I have forgotten what I would have asked you.
0	The body sins once, and has done with its sin, for action is a mode of purification.
0	She told me so, but I could not believe her.
0	There is nothing in the whole world so unbecoming to a woman as a Nonconformist conscience.
0	Gwendolen is devoted to bread and butter.
0	[Enter Lane with the cigarette case on a salver.
0	"I am not the same, Harry."
0	Ah, what a fascinating Puritan you are, Lady Windermere!
0	There would be nothing left for him as a profession except Botany or the Church.
0	No; there was only another room, though a prettier room, he thought, than the one he had just left.
0	It was winter, and a night of bitter cold.
0	Our attachés at Vienna write to us about nothing else.
0	That is one of the reasons why there was never any moral sympathy between us.
0	He would bring her acorn-cups and dew-drenched anemones, and tiny glow-worms to be stars in the pale gold of her hair.
0	Yes; the great emperor was a perfect man.
0	No, Ernest, don’t talk about action.
0	With regard to the Bible, considerations of ecclesiastical authority enter into the matter, so that I need not dwell upon the point.
0	The absolute purity of the protagonist raises the entire scheme to a height of romantic art from which the sufferings of Thebes and Pelops' line are by their very horror excluded, and shows how wrong Aristotle was when he said in his treatise on the drama that it would be impossible to bear the spectacle of one blameless in pain.
0	Well, she made it out of nothing.
0	You want to be modern, don’t you, Gerald?
0	It would have saved me a heap of worry and demmed misunderstandings!
0	The shock to his nervous system was so great that he fled back to his room as hard as he could go, and the next day he was laid up with a severe cold.
0	Quite forget what he does--afraid he--doesn't do anything--oh, yes, plays the piano--or is it the violin, dear Mr.
0	It is in this drawer.
0	For years, Dorian Gray could not free himself from the influence of this book.
0	Did you hear what I was playing, Lane?
0	It pains me very much to have to speak frankly to you, Lady Bracknell, about your nephew, but the fact is that I do not approve at all of his moral character.
0	His last but one, to do him justice.
0	But that they should have called Charles Kingsley an immoral novelist is extraordinary.
0	And so he would now study perfumes and the secrets of their manufacture, distilling heavily scented oils and burning odorous gums from the East.
0	And if I had a position, if I had prospects, I could—I could ask her to—Don’t you understand now, mother, what it means to me to be Lord Illingworth’s secretary?
0	The few words that Basil's friend had said to him--words spoken by chance, no doubt, and with wilful paradox in them--had touched some secret chord that had never been touched before, but that he felt was now vibrating and throbbing to curious pulses.
0	Don’t have one law for men and another for women.
0	'A dream of form in days of thought'--who is it who says that?
0	And you thought I didn’t care for the pleasant things of life.
0	What more can one desire?
0	Mr. Arbuthnot is very charming.
0	I worshipped you too much.
0	He would have said it.
0	The Greeks, with their quick artistic instinct, understood this, and set in the bride’s chamber the statue of Hermes or of Apollo, that she might bear children as lovely as the works of art that she looked at in her rapture or her pain.
0	She certainly has a wonderful faculty of remembering people’s names, and forgetting their faces.
0	At present you are a perfect type.
0	It was the living death of his own soul that troubled him.
0	Indeed, as a rule, everybody turns out to be somebody else.
0	And a bitter wind from the forest came in through the open door, and made her tremble, and she shivered, and said to him: ‘Wilt thou not close the door?
0	I assure you I have no more claim on them than your butler, and when Miss Virginia grows up, I dare say she will be pleased to have pretty things to wear.
0	At the Marble Arch they hailed an omnibus, which left them close to their shabby home in the Euston Road.
0	They are close to his very secret and know nothing of it.
0	Princess, I beg you do not require this of us.
0	But is that really so?
0	That I cannot forgive you.
0	Arthur [_going to him C._], you fancy because I have no father or mother that I am alone in the world, and that you can treat me as you choose.
0	He was to make his way quietly to Washington Otis's room, gibber at him from the foot of the bed, and stab himself three times in the throat to the sound of low music.
0	I am not interested in her—and—you should not mention this woman and me in the same breath.
0	The red rose heard it, and it trembled all over with ecstasy, and opened its petals to the cold morning air.
0	Incident and event were to him unreal or unmeaning.
0	One name is as good as another, when one has no right to any name.
0	Yes, we begin like that.
0	Borne back to the Capitol, she became at once the centre of a new cult, and from all parts of the city crowded pilgrims to worship at the wonderful shrine, till the Pope, fearing lest those who had found the secret of beauty in a Pagan tomb might forget what secrets Judæa’s rough and rock-hewn sepulchre contained, had the body conveyed away by night, and in secret buried.
0	You must not ask of him to have any aim other than the perfecting of himself.
0	And who are the people you amuse?
0	It is, if I can fully attain to it, the ultimate realisation of the artistic life.
0	I only hope we shall be able to keep this great historic bulwark of our happiness for many years to come; but I am afraid that we are beginning to be over-educated; at least everybody who is incapable of learning has taken to teaching—that is really what our enthusiasm for education has come to.
0	He opened the door and went out on the landing.
0	I sat there with sailors who drank of two different-coloured wines, and ate bread made of barley, and little salt fish served in bay leaves with vinegar.
0	It is I who should be consulted, not you.
0	My dear Ernest, what are you laughing at?
0	|         |   All others are counterfeite.
0	For in those halcyon days of the drama no archæology troubled the stage, or distressed the critics, and our inartistic grandfathers sat peaceably in a stifling atmosphere of anachronisms, and beheld with the calm complacency of the age of prose an Iachimo in powder and patches, a Lear in lace ruffles, and a Lady Macbeth in a large crinoline.
0	[_Sits at bureau and opens letter_, _and reads it_.]
0	And to me, the pleasure is doubled by the reflection that it is extremely probable that we have the actual terms, the _ipsissima verba_, used by Christ.
0	If he has fallen from his altar, do not thrust him into the mire.
0	Men who every day do something of the same kind themselves.
0	I will give you any sum of money you want.
0	He knew that when he was alone he would have to examine the portrait.
0	No, we are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars.
0	And was your novel ever published?
0	After all, even in prison, a man can be quite free.
0	You have borne me no child, and the prophet says that our marriage is not a true marriage.
0	It is on the grand tier.
0	Or do you object to such simple pleasures?"
0	I’ll see you soon again, Arthur, shan’t I?
0	I am one of those who are made for exceptions, not for laws.
0	"He is all my art to me now," said the painter gravely.
0	I fear I have no advice to give you, Mrs. Cheveley, except to interest yourself in something less dangerous.
0	“Press closer, little Nightingale,” cried the Tree, “or the Day will come before the rose is finished.” So the Nightingale pressed closer against the thorn, and the thorn touched her heart, and a fierce pang of pain shot through her.
0	Let us kneel down and try if we cannot remember a prayer.
0	And wherever the Star-Child led them they followed, and whatever the Star-Child bade them do, that did they.
0	That is a great disappointment.
0	Poor Augustus, you know how he repeats himself.
0	He says that you will be eaten of worms.
0	After two or three minutes of terrible silence, Dorian turned round and came and stood behind him, putting his hand upon his shoulder.
0	I set myself to wrestle with Caliban.
0	And surely there must be much good in one who is kind to an invalid, and leaves the pleasures of London to sit by a bed of pain.
0	A company of merchants were seated round it on carpets.
0	Is it your pleasure that I bid them bring your litter, Princess?
0	Society, which is the beginning and basis of morals, exists simply for the concentration of human energy, and in order to ensure its own continuance and healthy stability it demands, and no doubt rightly demands, of each of its citizens that he should contribute some form of productive labour to the common weal, and toil and travail that the day’s work may be done.
0	The one disgraceful, unpardonable, and to all time contemptible action of my life was to allow myself to appeal to society for help and protection.
0	Pure modernity of form is always somewhat vulgarising.
0	My dear Miss Worsley, I thought you liked English society so much.
0	When the farm-servant had done so, he stepped forward.
0	That was, of course, before they knew who I was.
0	It sounded like the clank of metal, and seemed to be coming nearer every moment.
0	[_Wipes her hands with her pocket-handkerchief_, _goes to tea-table_, _and sits down_.]
0	And a great desire came over him, and he said to himself, ‘It is but a day’s journey, and I can return to my love,’ and he laughed, and stood up in the shallow water, and strode towards the shore.
0	I hate people who talk about themselves, as you do, when one wants to talk about oneself, as I do.
0	If I may not find its secret within myself, I shall never find it: if I have not got it already, it will never come to me.
0	"You are flirting disgracefully with him," said Lord Henry to his cousin.
0	It was before Eleanor came out.
0	"No," answered his mother with a placid expression in her face.
0	You made your own fortune out of one canal.
0	"Terribly grave," echoed Lady Agatha.
0	It seems so much more probable.
0	They are always doing it.
0	The latter must be foolish.
0	Why, when I was your age, sir, I had been an inconsolable widower for three months, and was already paying my addresses to your admirable mother.
0	Talk to me till the white-horned day comes into the room.
0	[_Goes to the corner of the room and pours out a glass of water_.
0	A storm to wreck the ships, and wash the chests of rich treasure ashore?
0	It has nothing to do with the fact that other people want what they want.
0	Of all things it is the strangest.
0	You are a wonderful creation.
0	After a little while, he hailed a hansom and drove home.
0	A verdict of death by misadventure was returned.
0	It is like a knot of black serpents writhing round thy neck.
0	Yet he could not help feeling infinite pity for the painter who had just made this strange confession to him, and wondered if he himself would ever be so dominated by the personality of a friend.
0	The Emperor has written a satire against them.
0	Sibyl Vane's brother had not come back to kill him.
0	There is no passion that we cannot feel, no pleasure that we may not gratify, and we can choose the time of our initiation and the time of our freedom also.
0	If they were allowed their own way, every comedy would have a tragic ending, and every tragedy would culminate in a farce.
0	He was a most offensive brute, though he had an extraordinary passion for Shakespeare.
0	_In all her movements she is extremely graceful_.
0	Besides, it is only the modern that ever becomes old-fashioned.
0	“I am covered with fine gold,” said the Prince, “you must take it off, leaf by leaf, and give it to my poor; the living always think that gold can make them happy.” Leaf after leaf of the fine gold the Swallow picked off, till the Happy Prince looked quite dull and grey.
0	And Caroline has really nothing to be anxious about.
0	If he is like his mother, he must be a good-looking chap."
0	For, when the ideal is realised, it is robbed of its wonder and its mystery, and becomes simply a new starting-point for an ideal that is other than itself.
0	He made it a mocking bow, and it returned him a low reverence.
0	You must do me a drawing of Sibyl, Basil.
0	He does not understand what love is.
0	What are the improbable things?
0	You must tell me some other time.
0	This is merely the beginning."
0	When I like people immensely, I never tell their names to any one.
0	There were opiates for remorse, drugs that could lull the moral sense to sleep.
0	What people call insincerity is simply a method by which we can multiply our personalities.
0	The children grouped themselves all round, fluttering their big fans and whispering to each other, and Don Pedro and the Grand Inquisitor stood laughing at the entrance.
0	I think it is much safer to do so, Lady Stutfield.
0	Dorian Gray laughed, and tossed his head.
0	You work too hard, Robert.
0	Anything in the world you want.
0	Of course just as there are false dawns before the dawn itself, and winter days so full of sudden sunlight that they will cheat the wise crocus into squandering its gold before its time, and make some foolish bird call to its mate to build on barren boughs, so there were Christians before Christ.
0	A man who is master of himself can end a sorrow as easily as he can invent a pleasure.
0	It is the only way by which people should be judged.
0	What a horrible way for a man to die!
0	I hate people who cry over spilt milk.
0	As for their being heirlooms, nothing is an heirloom that is not so mentioned in a will or legal document, and the existence of these jewels has been quite unknown.
0	‘Where is this dreamer of dreams?’ they cried.
0	Well, really, Windermere, if I am to be the Duchess’s sister-in-law— LORD WINDERMERE.
0	It has been an arduous task.
0	Then am I not right in my estimate of him?
0	It merely requires a certain amount of sordid terror, a certain lack of imaginative thought, and a certain low passion for middle-class respectability.
0	"Then why won't you exhibit his portrait?"
0	It is that you have never made love to me.
0	He seemed broken with shame and sorrow.
0	A little sincerity is a dangerous thing, and a great deal of it is absolutely fatal.
0	You know yourself, Harry, how independent I am by nature.
0	[_L.C._]  Margaret, I was saying to you—and I beg you to listen to me—that as far as I have known Mrs. Erlynne, she has conducted herself well.
0	"I am perfectly happy now.
0	"Her name is Sibyl Vane."
0	It has been said that the anachronisms in the plays themselves show us that Shakespeare was indifferent to historical accuracy, and a great deal of capital has been made out of Hector’s indiscreet quotation from Aristotle.
0	The next day the workmen came to put everything tidy.
0	Yes: all the arts are immoral, except those baser forms of sensual or didactic art that seek to excite to action of evil or of good.
0	From the East cometh everything that is wise.
0	He had sandals on his feet, one of soft serpent-skin and the other of birds’ plumage.
0	It was Gautier's Emaux et Camees, Charpentier's Japanese-paper edition, with the Jacquemart etching.
0	He crept wearily down the ladder, and disappeared into the sea.
0	If I am late he is sure to be furious, and I couldn't have a scene in this bonnet.
0	[Jack looks at her in amazement.]
0	I do not think that even I could produce any effect on a character that according to his own brother's admission is irretrievably weak and vacillating.
0	Let me have some money for my night's lodging."
0	Promised Mrs. Erlynne never to play or drink again.
0	You have said that the Greeks were a nation of art-critics.
0	And in the sphere of thought, no less than in the sphere of time, motion is no more.
0	I assure you she is coming upstairs, as large as life and not nearly so natural.
0	I wish, Gertrude, you would speak to him, and tell him that once a week is quite often enough to propose to any one, and that it should always be done in a manner that attracts some attention.
0	I like hearing myself talk.
0	It was the machine he loved, not what the machine makes.
0	If they did believe you, they would like me all the better for it.
0	_Mi reina_!’ and sometimes breaking through the formal etiquette that in Spain governs every separate action of life, and sets limits even to the sorrow of a King, he would clutch at the pale jewelled hands in a wild agony of grief, and try to wake by his mad kisses the cold painted face.
0	You have heard nothing from Vienna yet, in answer to your wire?
0	He tells us of the arrow that is shot from the bow of exile, and how salt tastes the bread of another, and how steep are the stairs in the house of a stranger.
0	As they turned a corner, a woman yelled something at them from an open door, and two men ran after the hansom for about a hundred yards.
0	To be popular one must be a mediocrity."
0	"How horrid of you, Harry!"
0	The only really safe name is Ernest.
0	With women it is different.
0	Youth is the only thing worth having.
0	And when bad Americans die, where do they go to?
0	Do you really think, Arthur, that it is weakness that yields to temptation?
0	You have that moment now.
0	The fact that they did not follow us at once into the house, as any one else would have done, seems to me to show that they have some sense of shame left.
0	I remember Harry saying once that every man who turned himself into an amateur curate for the moment always began by saying that, and then proceeded to break his word.
0	To the right there is a gigantic staircase, to the left, at the back, an old cistern surrounded by a wall of green bronze.
0	He is a holy man.
0	They are quite out of place.
0	There is nothing in the world so respectable as a good Shrewsbury and Talbot.
0	"You will always like me, Dorian," he replied.
0	He jumped up and seized her roughly by the arm.
0	I want you to tell me about his mother.
0	I beg you to go.
0	His sitting-room was on the ground floor, and he prudently kept the blinds down for fear of being seen.
0	So much, indeed, will he feel this, that I am certain that, as civilisation progresses and we become more highly organised, the elect spirits of each age, the critical and cultured spirits, will grow less and less interested in actual life, and _will seek to gain their impressions almost entirely from what Art has touched_.
0	cried the lad, with a ripple of laughter.
0	And you were so much admired by the best people.
0	I am always at work, Lady Hunstanton.
0	All I say is, watch over Sibyl.
0	And the young Fisherman leapt up, and left his wattled house, and ran down to the shore.
0	Francis was as pale as death.
0	[The music stops and Algernon enters cheerily.]
0	But talk not of the soul, for to us it is nought, nor has it any value for our service.’ And the young Fisherman said to himself: ‘How strange a thing this is!
0	I have had twenty years of sorrow, and I have only had one thing to love me, only one thing to love.
0	But, somehow, I have got to make both of these things just and right to me.
0	Pray, Mr. Montford, do not make these painful scenes of jealousy in public!
0	"I never knew her," he stammered.
0	Would he ever look at it again?
0	Yes; the air is delicious.
0	That depends partly on the weather, partly on the cooking, and partly on Sir Robert.
0	Still, it was his own picture.
0	Sculpture, too, has its critic, who may be either the carver of a gem, as he was in Greek days, or some painter like Mantegna, who sought to reproduce on canvas the beauty of plastic line and the symphonic dignity of processional bas-relief.
0	"Prince Charming," she answered, looking after the victoria.
0	How different from the temper of the true liar, with his frank, fearless statements, his superb irresponsibility, his healthy, natural disdain of proof of any kind!
0	As a method, realism is a complete failure.
0	You have just the same expression in your mouth.
0	You must have some secret.
0	This ghastly state of things is what you call Bunburying, I suppose?
0	Modern, no less than Ancient History, supplies us with many most painful examples of what I refer to.
0	But I knew you would agree with me.
0	I grow cold when I think of it, and wonder to myself if the admirable ethical effect of the prose of that charming writer, who once in a spirit of reckless generosity towards the uncultivated portion of our community proclaimed the monstrous doctrine that conduct is three-fourths of life, will not some day be entirely annihilated by the discovery that the pæons have been wrongly placed.
0	You never talk anything but nonsense.
0	"It can only be the next world.
0	"I wish she were ill," he rejoined.
0	It were well for England if it were so.
0	I want you to lead such a life as will make the world respect you.
0	I know that there are men with horrible secrets in their lives—men who have done some shameful thing, and who in some critical moment have to pay for it, by doing some other act of shame—oh!
0	You will find me all attention.
0	Pain is not the ultimate mode of perfection.
0	It is not tangible by the body.
0	In a community like ours, where property confers immense distinction, social position, honour, respect, titles, and other pleasant things of the kind, man, being naturally ambitious, makes it his aim to accumulate this property, and goes on wearily and tediously accumulating it long after he has got far more than he wants, or can use, or enjoy, or perhaps even know of.
0	No; I have just come from the Woman’s Liberal Association, where, by the way, Robert, your name was received with loud applause, and now I have come in to have my tea.
0	I have never done anything else.
0	You can tell the world all about it afterwards, if you choose.
0	[_Leaning over the back of the chair_.]
0	You rich people in England, you don’t know how you are living.
0	I received from the Baron £110,000.
0	He can be what he chooses.
0	Shortly after they had gone to bed they were suddenly alarmed by a fearful crash in the hall.
0	I think that is rather mean of you, Ernest, I must say.
0	I am afraid Lord Goring is in the camp of the enemy, as usual.
0	It is one of the first instincts of man.
0	[_They all go out except_ SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.
0	And if we are good, when they meet us, they don’t love us at all.
0	Shall I never see you again, Mrs. Erlynne?
0	It is worse than a delusion.
0	The young man was leaning against the mantelshelf, watching him with that strange expression that one sees on the faces of those who are absorbed in a play when some great artist is acting.
0	Is Mr. Trafford in his room?
0	And the old man set before him some mouldy bread on a trencher and said, ‘Eat,’ and some brackish water in a cup and said, ‘Drink,’ and when he had eaten and drunk, the old man went out, locking the door behind him and fastening it with an iron chain.
0	And I saw him afterwards at poor Lord Plumstead’s with straws in his hair, or something very odd about him.
0	You must tell me what I did.
0	The rhythmic harmonious gestures of dancing convey, Plato tells us, both rhythm and harmony into the mind.
0	So sweet was her voice that he forgot his nets and his cunning, and had no care of his craft.
0	He was pleased by it.
0	And that will show you that I love my son, at least as much as you love him.
0	[_These people enter as announced_.]
0	‘As soon as he was dead the Emperor turned to me, and when he had wiped away the bright sweat from his brow with a little napkin of purfled and purple silk, he said to me, “Art thou a prophet, that I may not harm thee, or the son of a prophet, that I can do thee no hurt?
0	But it must be remembered that while sympathy with joy intensifies the sum of joy in the world, sympathy with pain does not really diminish the amount of pain.
0	My dear child, you don’t mean to tell me that you won’t forgive your husband because he never loved any one else?
0	‘When it was noon they opened the gate, and as we entered in the people came crowding out of the houses to look at us, and a crier went round the city crying through a shell.
0	Beauty reveals everything, because it expresses nothing.
0	Who dared to do that?
0	I cannot repeat an emotion.
0	Oh, it has been no inconvenience.
0	The principles of the former, as laid down by the Greeks, we may not realise in an age so marred by false ideals as our own.
0	Think of their loathsome joy, of the delight they would have in dragging you down, of the mud and mire they would plunge you in.
0	She loves you and no one else.
0	I grew jealous of every one to whom you spoke.
0	I will drink to Cæsar.
0	It is but a day’s journey from this place, and it waits for thy coming.
0	He is not the arbiter of the work of art.
0	I have kissed thy mouth, Jokanaan.
0	In a few days you shall be Lord Illingworth’s lawful wife.
0	I suppose they were intensely sentimental, weren’t they?
0	You never open your lips while you are painting, and it is horribly dull standing on a platform and trying to look pleasant.
0	There will have to be an inquest, of course, and you must not be mixed up in it.
0	As for colour, that is always a matter of taste: the Cantervilles have blue blood, for instance, the very bluest in England; but I know you Americans don't care for things of this kind."
0	Poor Jenkins the carter, a most hard-working man.
0	I am afraid you think I spoke too strongly, Lady Hunstanton.
0	My memory is under admirable control.
0	An ethical sympathy in an artist is an unpardonable mannerism of style.
0	You don't mean to say Gwendolen refused you?
0	You all go over like ninepins—one after the other.
0	Your beauty has grievously troubled me, and I have looked at you too much.
0	Out of its secret hiding-place had crept his soul, and desire had come to meet it on the way.
0	We run to kiss the bleeding mouth of Fantine, and we follow Manon Lescaut over the whole world.
0	And so Individualism exercises no compulsion over man.
0	C’est un progrès qui viendra.’  And, though the description of the crest is not couched in accurate language, still the crest itself was accurately right.
0	I trust you will return from Australia in a position of affluence.
0	We are no longer in art concerned with the type.
0	"It represents the survival of the pushing."
0	But I can’t stand the American young lady.
0	Oh, don’t imagine I mind about the money.
0	There is something of a child about her.
0	I wanted to meet you.
0	[_Writes something on the envelope_.
0	You may also address me as Aunt Augusta for the future.
0	At last they reached a little bay, and began to take soundings.
0	I am bound to state that she ate an enormous dinner, so I did not feel any anxiety.
0	I was a prisoner and a pauper.
0	You should have seen her!
0	It is covered with mire and dust.
0	Well, it is Ernest after all.
0	It is the only way to eat them.
0	Even those who had heard the most evil things against him--and from time to time strange rumours about his mode of life crept through London and became the chatter of the clubs--could not believe anything to his dishonour when they saw him.
0	Sweet-william grew there, and Gilly-flowers, and Shepherds’-purses, and Fair-maids of France.
0	It is what I call the depth of generosity."
0	How long ago that seems!
0	And the Witch with the red hair tried to fly away also, but the Fisherman caught her by her wrists, and held her fast.
0	"What an angel you are!"
0	A critic, for whom I have a greater regard than many of his contemporaries, says that "Salomé" is only a catalogue; but a catalogue can be intensely dramatic, as we know when the performance takes place at Christie's; few plays are more exciting than an auction in King Street when the stars are fighting _for_ Sisera.
0	He is not of age yet.
0	"Never marry at all, Dorian.
0	His head sinks, and the sacred corpse ‘swings senseless of the     cross.’  A sheet of vermilion flame shoots sheer through the air and     vanishes; the rocks of Carmel and Lebanon cleave asunder; the sea     rolls on high from the sands its black weltering waves.
0	No more and no less than it does to the novelist and the painter.
0	The moment Algernon first mentioned to me that he had a friend called Ernest, I knew I was destined to love you.
0	There was a curl of contempt in his lips.
0	It was the most premature definition ever given.
0	Well, I won’t keep you from her.
0	My dear Sir Robert, you are a man of the world, and you have your price, I suppose.
0	And a bitter, an unjust judge he will be to you.
0	She thought of the ghost's description of the Garden of Death, her eyes became dim with tears, and she hardly spoke a word during the drive home.
0	"Let us sit down, Dorian," said the painter, looking troubled.
0	It seems to me to be simply like a wonderful ending to a wonderful play.
0	Why he murdered Mrs. Abercrombie is not ascertained.
0	I think I shall send a wire to Harvey to have the yacht got ready.
0	[_Exit_ LADY WINDERMERE _R._]  You seem rather out of temper this morning, Windermere.
0	There was the madness of pride in every word he uttered.
0	“My roses are white,” it answered; “as white as the foam of the sea, and whiter than the snow upon the mountain.
0	We in the House of Lords are never in touch with public opinion.
0	You of all women I have ever known.
0	I have never had such a friend as you, and I shall never have such another.
0	The adders hissed at him as he went by, and the bright parrots flew screaming from branch to branch.
0	Nobody likes to be asked favours.
0	I myself used to receive many bouquets at one time.
0	An unhealthy work of art, on the other hand, is a work whose style is obvious, old-fashioned, and common, and whose subject is deliberately chosen, not because the artist has any pleasure in it, but because he thinks that the public will pay him for it.
0	"You shall have another if you drive fast."
0	Lying and poetry are arts—arts, as Pinto saw, not unconnected with each other—and they require the most careful study, the most disinterested devotion.
0	[Tries to embrace her again.]
0	"And how did Lady Brandon describe this wonderful young man?"
0	They are always trying to escape from us.
0	The curves of her throat were the curves of a white lily.
0	For, while he fascinated many, there were not a few who distrusted him.
0	I said it as a matter of regret.
0	Will you ride to-morrow morning?
0	I think it was her proposing to sacrifice the whole world for me.
0	It was not, but where else was I to go?
0	It is wrong for a wife to remain with a man who so dishonours her.
0	It has always been so with me from my boyhood.
0	All day long he flew, and at night-time he arrived at the city.
0	Now it was to hide something that had a corruption of its own, worse than the corruption of death itself--something that would breed horrors and yet would never die.
0	He was the pioneer of Asiatic prose, and delighted in pictorial epithets and pompous exaggerations.
0	There is no secret of life.
0	[_With a look of surprise_.]
0	You have no idea what it was.
0	Why doesn’t the Government look to it?’ ‘Weet!
0	It has sown its martyrs, it should reap its saints, and praise God daily for having hidden Himself from man.
0	I have returned sooner than I expected.
0	[_Goes across to the table_.]
0	It ware buskins of brass, and its thick neck was circled with a circle of selenites.
0	Oh, I assure you it’s all settled.
0	Your debt is to Lady Chiltern, not to me!
0	I am left to sink.
0	‘Know thyself’ was written over the portal of the antique world.
0	she actually made me introduce her to poor dear Aunt Caroline.
0	"It is absurd asking me to behave myself," he answered, looking round in astonishment at the pretty little girl who had ventured to address him, "quite absurd.
0	[LORD ILLINGWORTH _goes across to_ MRS.
0	It is you I trust and need.
0	There is not even a fine nightmare among them.
0	Yet it was watching him, with its beautiful marred face and its cruel smile.
0	Now I go in for domesticity, and look after my family.” “I am made for public life,” said the Rocket, “and so are all my relations, even the humblest of them.
0	They said Kelso got some rascally adventurer, some Belgian brute, to insult his son-in-law in public--paid him, sir, to do it, paid him--and that the fellow spitted his man as if he had been a pigeon.
0	They seem to be made of amber and cool ivory.
0	And then the family skeleton is always reading family prayers.
0	So cold was it that even the animals and the birds did not know what to make of it.
0	We women worship when we love; and when we lose our worship, we lose everything.
0	Good heavens, my dear boy, don't look so tragic!
0	To his, now that I know you.
0	A faint purple mist hangs over the Park, and the shadows of the white houses are purple.
0	[With a shiver, crossing to the sofa and sitting down.]
0	No; he should be nice about them all, but say that somehow they don’t attract him.
0	So overjoyed were they at their deliverance that they laughed aloud, and the Earth seemed to them like a flower of silver, and the Moon like a flower of gold.
0	Say I shall be very glad to see her.
0	You can have nothing to say to me.
0	The artist, art; the dull, dulness; the vulgar, vulgarity.
0	You have thrown it all away.
0	"She has promised to come on the twentieth."
0	But so am I, Arthur.
0	When the Emperor saw me, he raised his painted eyebrows and stopped.
0	He is the young Syrian whom you made captain only three days ago.
0	What more can a gentleman require in this world?
0	However they may object to it, people must nowadays have something charming in their surroundings.
0	Youth has a kingdom waiting for it.
0	I like the duchess very much, but I don't love her."
0	If he had done a tithe of what was rumoured about him, how much he must have suffered!
0	Certainly with hideous iteration the bitten lips of Dorian Gray shaped and reshaped those subtle words that dealt with soul and sense, till he had found in them the full expression, as it were, of his mood, and justified, by intellectual approval, passions that without such justification would still have dominated his temper.
0	I thought that it was all true.
0	to see him is perfect happiness.
0	Each of the professions means a prejudice.
0	Those who find ugly meanings in beautiful things are corrupt without being charming.
0	The evolution of man is slow.
0	And now I must admit— GILBERT.
0	She laughed at him in her loose Bacchante dress.
0	This is the face of a satyr."
0	At last their eyes met, and wherever he danced it seemed to him that the eyes of the man were upon him.
0	There is not a single real poet or prose-writer of this century, for instance, on whom the British public have not solemnly conferred diplomas of immorality, and these diplomas practically take the place, with us, of what in France, is the formal recognition of an Academy of Letters, and fortunately make the establishment of such an institution quite unnecessary in England.
0	Tell me more about Mr. Dorian Gray.
0	[_Pouring himself out a brandy and soda at table_.]
0	If you want any corroborative evidence on the subject, you can ask him."
0	He is a fashionable man.
0	The last two dances you might pass on the terrace with Mr. Hopper.
0	He bit his lip, and for a few seconds his eyes grew sad.
0	Yes: and as art springs from personality, so it is only to personality that it can be revealed, and from the meeting of the two comes right interpretative criticism.
0	"Well, you don't mind my looking at the thing now?"
0	Thy body was a column of ivory set on a silver socket.
0	I am awaiting until my slaves bring perfumes to me and the seven veils, and take off my sandals.
0	At the same time, the firing ceased along the line.
0	I am afraid it is quite clear, Cecily, that neither of us is engaged to be married to any one.
0	Who cares for the Second Empire now?
0	She was free in her prison of passion.
0	I may be wrong, but I should have thought that friendship, true friendship, was quite free from selfishness of any kind.’ “‘My dear friend, my best friend,’ cried little Hans, ‘you are welcome to all the flowers in my garden.
0	Society takes upon itself the right to inflict appalling punishment on the individual, but it also has the supreme vice of shallowness, and fails to realise what it has done.
0	Why not let it stay there?
0	Nor could I understand how Dante, who says that 'sorrow remarries us to God,' could have been so harsh to those who were enamoured of melancholy, if any such there really were.
0	Suddenly a dog bayed in the wood, and the dancers stopped, and going up two by two, knelt down, and kissed the man’s hands.
0	They acted so well, and their gestures were so extremely natural, that at the close of the play the eyes of the Infanta were quite dim with tears.
0	It degrades those who exercise it, and degrades those over whom it is exercised.
0	Months of voiceless agony, and then a child born in pain.
0	Rosalind, he tells us, is tall, and is to carry a spear and a little dagger; Celia is smaller, and is to paint her face brown so as to look sunburnt.
0	No; that was a flash of genius.
0	A white-smocked carter offered him some cherries.
0	And it is to be noted that it is the fact that Art is this intense form of Individualism that makes the public try to exercise over it in an authority that is as immoral as it is ridiculous, and as corrupting as it is contemptible.
0	The snow lay thick upon the ground, and upon the branches of the trees: the frost kept snapping the little twigs on either side of them, as they passed: and when they came to the Mountain-Torrent she was hanging motionless in air, for the Ice-King had kissed her.
0	He is the very basis of civilised society, and without him a dinner-party, even at the mansions of the great, is as dull as a lecture at the Royal Society, or a debate at the Incorporated Authors, or one of Mr. Burnand’s farcical comedies.
0	You have explained to me that criticism is a creative art.
0	that is the great thing in life, to live the truth.
0	You don’t know how gratified I should be.
0	I am going to bring them into the market and sell them to the Burgomaster’s daughter, and buy back my wheelbarrow with the money.’ “‘Buy back your wheelbarrow?
0	He procured from Paris no less than nine large-paper copies of the first edition, and had them bound in different colours, so that they might suit his various moods and the changing fancies of a nature over which he seemed, at times, to have almost entirely lost control.
0	Do you know it is nearly seven?
0	Like a targe of polished metal the round sea lay at his feet, and the shadows of the fishing-boats moved in the little bay.
0	It would be an immense advantage to the community.
0	She told me she had discovered a wonderful young man who was going to help her in the East End, and that his name was Dorian Gray.
0	You are perfectly right in making some slight alteration.
0	She is afraid that I will talk to you of Lucian and Longinus, of Quinctilian and Dionysius, of Pliny and Fronto and Pausanias, of all those who in the antique world wrote or lectured upon art matters.
0	Never trust a woman who wears mauve, whatever her age may be, or a woman over thirty-five who is fond of pink ribbons.
0	It would take a Public Company with a Board of Directors and a paid Secretary to do that.
0	They do their best, no doubt, and consequently we get the worst from them.
0	Did I hear you mention a Miss Prism?
0	He had changed, too--was strangely melancholy at times, appeared almost to dislike hearing music, and would never himself play, giving as his excuse, when he was called upon, that he was so absorbed in science that he had no time left in which to practise.
0	I suppose you had better talk to the housekeeper about a room for him.
0	She looks anxiously round as if desirous to escape.]
0	What do you mean by saying that life, ‘poor, probable, uninteresting human life,’ will try to reproduce the marvels of art?
0	The curves of your lips rewrite history."
0	Her ladyship has not yet left her room.
0	And now tell me, what makes you leave your brilliant Vienna for our gloomy London—or perhaps the question is indiscreet?
0	She looked at him in horror.
0	I will read you what I say on that subject.
0	‘Nay, but be merciful,’ said his Soul: ‘give me thy heart, for the world is very cruel, and I am afraid.’ ‘My heart is my love’s,’ he answered, ‘therefore tarry not, but get thee gone.’ ‘Should I not love also?’ asked his Soul.
0	You will never see me again.
0	He answered to every touch and thrill of the bow....
0	"Oh, your theories about life, your theories about love, your theories about pleasure.
0	He shall be seated on this throne.
0	In the case of very fascinating women, sex is a challenge, not a defence.
0	It has a music of its own.
0	Life then is a failure?
0	James Vane was hidden in a nameless grave in Selby churchyard.
0	And that, in the views and ideas I am here shaping for myself, I am quite right is shown to me by the fact that now for the first time since my imprisonment I have a real desire for life.
0	The crimson spot of a prowling hansom gleamed at the corner and then vanished.
0	When he arrived home, about half-past twelve o'clock, he saw a telegram lying on the hall table.
0	You mock at everything, and then suggest the most serious tragedies.
0	Never have I been so happy.
0	How ghastly the mere memory of the scene!
0	Crime, which, under certain conditions, may seem to have created Individualism, must take cognisance of other people and interfere with them.
0	Next to her sat, on her right, Sir Thomas Burdon, a Radical member of Parliament, who followed his leader in public life and in private life followed the best cooks, dining with the Tories and thinking with the Liberals, in accordance with a wise and well-known rule.
0	I hope an operation will not be necessary.
0	This last insult so enraged him, that he resolved to make one final effort to assert his dignity and social position, and determined to visit the insolent young Etonians the next night in his celebrated character of "Reckless Rupert, or the Headless Earl."
0	And the first thing that I have got to do is to free myself from any possible bitterness of feeling against the world.
0	He does not really teach one anything, but by being brought into his presence one becomes something.
0	From this moment my life is separate from yours.
0	I have hit a beater!"
0	You don’t know what a treat is in store for you.
0	"Always glad to have a rest, Mr. Gray," answered the frame-maker, who was still gasping for breath.
0	But it will be different now.
0	And as for Life, she is the solvent that breaks up Art, the enemy that lays waste her house.’ CYRIL.
0	We sow the corn, and our own board is empty.
0	[_Tapping his boot with his cane_.]
0	I have just seen her.
0	Nor could he hear anywhere of the beggar-woman who was his mother, though for the space of three years he wandered over the world, and often seemed to see her on the road in front of him, and would call to her, and run after her till the sharp flints made his feet to bleed.
0	His principles were out of date, but there was a good deal to be said for his prejudices.
0	Out of the sea will rise Behemoth and Leviathan, and sail round the high-pooped galleys, as they do on the delightful maps of those ages when books on geography were actually readable.
0	You will not ask me to give you a survey of Greek art criticism from Plato to Plotinus.
0	One should, of course, have no prejudices; but, as a great Frenchman remarked a hundred years ago, it is one’s business in such matters to have preferences, and when one has preferences one ceases to be fair.
0	Still, there is a limit even to the number of untried backgrounds, and it is possible that a further development of the habit of introspection may prove fatal to that creative faculty to which it seeks to supply fresh material.
0	She swept over the garden like a shadow, and like a shadow she sailed through the grove.
0	Ah, but I did mean them.
0	But what are these things to thee?
0	Nonsense, dear Windermere, you must not leave me!
0	But this is a mistake.
0	I, and such as I am, have hardly any right to air and sun.
0	The scene was the hall of Capulet's house, and Romeo in his pilgrim's dress had entered with Mercutio and his other friends.
0	The fire cannot purify her.
0	I am not quite sure.
0	A great artist invents a type, and Life tries to copy it, to reproduce it in a popular form, like an enterprising publisher.
0	My daughter has done well.
0	‘Thou knowest,’ he made answer.
0	On another occasion he had been missed for several hours, and after a lengthened search had been discovered in a little chamber in one of the northern turrets of the palace gazing, as one in a trance, at a Greek gem carved with the figure of Adonis.
0	"Harry, Harry, it is terrible!"
0	Whatsoever you wish I will give it you, even to the half of my kingdom.
0	You have been wrong in all that you taught me, mother, quite wrong.
0	One has a right to Bunbury anywhere one chooses.
0	Since then, his work was that curious mixture of bad painting and good intentions that always entitles a man to be called a representative British artist.
0	It is well for his peace that the saint goes to his martyrdom.
0	A cigarette is the perfect type of a perfect pleasure.
0	I prefer them to stars myself, as you always know when they are going to appear, and they are as delightful as my own flute-playing.
0	I want you to explain to me why you won't exhibit Dorian Gray's picture.
0	"Ask Mr. Gray to wait, Parker:  I shall be in in a few moments."
0	"And I don't forgive you for being late for dinner," broke in Lord Henry, putting his hand on the lad's shoulder and smiling as he spoke.
0	‘It matters not,’ she answered.
0	Nothing is so aggravating as calmness.
0	Call it what you choose.
0	Its branches were all golden, and silver fruit hung down from them, and underneath it stood the little boy he had loved.
0	The mere creative instinct does not innovate, but reproduces.
0	He should never run down other pretty women.
0	Oh, don't leave me, don't leave me."
0	How long have you known her?"
0	I have reasons now to believe that the Commission was prejudiced, or, at any rate, misinformed.
0	He held the gem against the revolving disk, and the amethyst became the purple couch for Adonis, and across the veined sardonyx sped Artemis with her hounds.
0	I don’t know what to do about Mrs. Erlynne.
0	Then it is in love with you.
0	As he strolled home, smoking his cigarette, two young men in evening dress passed him.
0	Who that desires to retain any sense of form could struggle through the monstrous multitudinous books that the world has produced, books in which thought stammers or ignorance brawls?
0	I cannot understand what it is that he saith, but it may be an omen.
0	I’m sorry, I am, really.
0	"It is too far for me," he muttered.
0	Write to me in answer to this, and try and see what Lemaitre, Bauer, and Sarcey said of 'Salomé.'"
0	I don’t think I like you at all this evening!
0	But Wisdom has always been hidden from it.
0	If the tapestry did but tremble in the wind, he shook.
0	But we must not go off into questions of comparative mythology.
0	For ever, I hope, this time, Lord Illingworth.
0	_The distinction of Phipps is his impassivity_.
0	Do you know, Gertrude, I don’t mind your talking morality a bit.
0	All art is at once surface and symbol.
0	You told Harry exactly the same thing."
0	There was something in his face that made one trust him at once.
0	Mr. Worthing, I offer you my sincere condolence.
0	Thanks for giving me the information I wanted.
0	Affection comes later on in married life.
0	Mother, I gave thee hatred.
0	That girl, last night, good though she is, fled from the room as though I were a tainted thing.
0	"I fear so," she said, laughing, as she stood up.
0	"I hate the way you talk about your married life, Harry," said Basil Hallward, strolling towards the door that led into the garden.
0	There was nothing in the world so black as thy hair.
0	When the ceremony was over, the servants, according to an old custom observed in the Canterville family, extinguished their torches, and, as the coffin was being lowered into the grave, Virginia stepped forward, and laid on it a large cross made of white and pink almond-blossoms.
0	But, seriously speaking, what is the use of art-criticism?
0	They are the most becoming we have.
0	I love her, and I must make her love me.
0	It is a doctrine that cometh from the schools at Alexandria, where men teach the philosophy of the Greeks.
0	We have the largest country in the world, Lady Caroline.
0	[_He empties the cup of wine._] Give me the head of Jokanaan.
0	We cannot go back to the saint.
0	_Her thin fingers tear at the jewel to no purpose_.
0	It is of the great facts of the world, like sunlight, or spring-time, or the reflection in dark waters of that silver shell we call the moon.
0	Beautiful idiot, or the other thing?
0	“Shall I love you?” said the Swallow, who liked to come to the point at once, and the Reed made him a low bow.
0	Things that he had dimly dreamed of were suddenly made real to him.
0	_Gray-green eyes that move restlessly_.
0	What do I bring him?
0	Surely you should be glad to think that, though you are going away, you leave me happier than I have ever been before.
0	However, I am quite ready to enter your name, should your answers be what a really affectionate mother requires.
0	Whatsoever it may be, they shall give it you.
0	He has not even the courage of other people’s ideas, but insists on going directly to life for everything, and ultimately, between encyclopædias and personal experience, he comes to the ground, having drawn his types from the family circle or from the weekly washerwoman, and having acquired an amount of useful information from which never, even in his most meditative moments, can he thoroughly free himself.
0	She is perfectly right, too.
0	Lord Bracknell would be highly displeased if he learned that that was the way in which you wasted your time and money.
0	They say, Lady Hunstanton, that when good Americans die they go to Paris.
0	"All ways end at the same point, my dear Gladys."
0	“Sing me one last song,” he whispered; “I shall feel very lonely when you are gone.” So the Nightingale sang to the Oak-tree, and her voice was like water bubbling from a silver jar.
0	The eyesight is rapidly going.
0	There is no man who hath seen God since the prophet Elias.
0	You shall not tell her—I forbid you.
0	A work of art is the unique result of a unique temperament.
0	That is well said, my daughter.
0	But rather than my wife should know—that the mother whom she was taught to consider as dead, the mother whom she has mourned as dead, is living—a divorced woman, going about under an assumed name, a bad woman preying upon life, as I know you now to be—rather than that, I was ready to supply you with money to pay bill after bill, extravagance after extravagance, to risk what occurred yesterday, the first quarrel I have ever had with my wife.
0	The world has many fairer than she is.
0	I mean everything that I have said.
0	Princess, the Tetrarch prays you to return to the feast.
0	Having locked the door behind him, he crept quietly downstairs.
0	‘I can turn the autumn leaves into gold,’ she answered, ‘and I can weave the pale moonbeams into silver if I will it.
0	_Thirty-four_, _but always says he is younger_.
0	Leaden with fear, his mother watched him.
0	The weather still continues charming.'
0	“Well, really,” said the Water-rat, in a very angry manner, “I think you should have told me that before you began.
0	She is bound to him for three years--at least for two years and eight months--from the present time.
0	The cry of Isaiah had really no more to do with his coming than the song of the nightingale has to do with the rising of the moon--no more, though perhaps no less.
0	He is spared the sight of the horror of his harvest.
0	And you will shake hands with him, won't you, Uncle Jack?
0	"Because I have promised Lord Henry Wotton to go with him."
0	Under an assumed name he drank, I've just been informed by my butler, an entire pint bottle of my Perrier-Jouet, Brut, '89; wine I was specially reserving for myself.
0	Dorian Gray leaped to his feet, with flushed cheeks and burning eyes.
0	The moment one sits down to think, one becomes all nose, or all forehead, or something horrid.
0	Is not He who made misery wiser than thou art?
0	And when she saw them she wept for joy, and said, ‘He is my little son whom I lost in the forest.
0	Plague was written upon her forehead, and a crowd of lean vultures wheeled round her.
0	He is at any rate a healthy protest.
0	However, as I said before, if he is rich ..." "Ah!
0	Those straw-coloured women have dreadful tempers.
0	Yes; he is in the conservatory.
0	Yes, and a perfectly wonderful Bunbury it is.
0	"Of course I go and stay with them every summer after I come from Homburg, but then an old woman like me must have fresh air sometimes, and besides, I really wake them up.
0	He had hoped that even modern Americans would be thrilled by the sight of a Spectre in armour, if for no more sensible reason, at least out of respect for their natural poet Longfellow, over whose graceful and attractive poetry he himself had whiled away many a weary hour when the Cantervilles were up in town.
0	I have no doubt that it is quite right one should be.
0	The Duchess of Berwick and Lady Agatha Carlisle.
0	How very nice of you!
0	Dorian is far too sensible."
0	I’ll send a wire to Fannen.
0	They were delightful boys, and, with the exception of the worthy Minister, the only true republicans of the family.
0	Lord Henry stroked his pointed brown beard and tapped the toe of his patent-leather boot with a tasselled ebony cane.
0	Nobody is incapable of doing a foolish thing.
0	You look as if your name was Ernest.
0	His fingers moved instinctively towards it, dipped in, and closed on something.
0	If a frost comes we shall not have a hundred thousand men out of work, tramping about the streets in a state of disgusting misery, or whining to their neighbours for alms, or crowding round the doors of loathsome shelters to try and secure a hunch of bread and a night’s unclean lodging.
0	As it is with the visible arts, so it is with literature.
0	"Come, Sibyl," said her brother impatiently.
0	Thou hast waded deep enough therein.... What is it to me?
0	Well, like all stout women, she looks the very picture of happiness, as no doubt you noticed.
0	One can survive everything nowadays, except death, and live down anything except a good reputation.
0	Phipps, when did this letter arrive?
0	Why don’t you imitate him, sir?
0	But while I see that there is nothing wrong in what one does, I see that there is something wrong in what one becomes.
0	[_Goes off grumbling into the smoking-room_.
0	It were better far to say that....
0	Its sources are obvious; particularly Flaubert and Maeterlinck, in whose peculiar and original style it is an essay.
0	ΚΑΛΟΣ ΑΛΚΙΒΙΑΔΗΣ or ΚΑΛΟΣ ΧΑΡΜΙΔΗΣ tells us the story of his days.
0	If the thing was true, it was terrible.
0	Something--he did not know what--had to be done at once.
0	In fact I have two similar ceremonies to perform at that time.
0	His voice was hard and cold.
0	‘I answered that I was a Prince in my own land, and that I had escaped from the Tartars, who had sought to make me their slave.
0	As he was strolling towards the library, however, to see if there were any traces left of the blood-stain, suddenly there leaped out on him from a dark corner two figures, who waved their arms wildly above their heads, and shrieked out "BOO!"
0	As far as I am concerned, you may squander everything we have.
0	A beautiful woman risking everything for a mad passion.
0	With regard to little Virginia, he had not quite made up his mind.
0	The difference between such a book as M. Zola’s _L’Assommoir_ and Balzac’s _Illusions Perdues_ is the difference between unimaginative realism and imaginative reality.
0	They weep and laugh as she wills them to do.
0	[They fall into each other's arms.]
0	Shall the lion do thy bidding, and the wild boar obey thee?
0	But it is not for any child, dear Doctor.
0	If you wish me never to look at your picture again, I am content.
0	We were in her box.
0	The error all women commit.
0	But let us turn from the practical sphere, and say no more about the wicked philanthropists, who, indeed, may well be left to the mercy of the almond-eyed sage of the Yellow River Chuang Tsu the wise, who has proved that such well-meaning and offensive busybodies have destroyed the simple and spontaneous virtue that there is in man.
0	Well, before you read it to me, I should like to ask you a question.
0	But there is no red rose in my garden, so I shall sit lonely, and she will pass me by.
0	Accordingly, he made arrangements for appearing to Virginia's little lover in his celebrated impersonation of "The Vampire Monk, or the Bloodless Benedictine," a performance so horrible that when old Lady Startup saw it, which she did on one fatal New Year's Eve, in the year 1764, she went off into the most piercing shrieks, which culminated in violent apoplexy, and died in three days, after disinheriting the Cantervilles, who were her nearest relations, and leaving all her money to her London apothecary.
0	With their standard the Lyceum would have been a sort of second-rate booth, as some of the popular theatres in London are at present.
0	I suppose you are right.
0	As a triumph for her, I suppose?
0	Her eyes opened wide in exquisite wonder when I told her what I thought of her performance, and she seemed quite unconscious of her power.
0	One's own soul, and the passions of one's friends--those were the fascinating things in life.
0	One analysed it, explained it, and wearied of it.
0	"You are foolish, Jim, utterly foolish; a bad-tempered boy, that is all.
0	One gained from it that _nouveau frisson_ which it was its aim to produce.
0	The evil faces of the Roman emperors look out at us from the foul porphyry and spotted jasper in which the realistic artists of the day delighted to work, and we fancy that in those cruel lips and heavy sensual jaws we can find the secret of the ruin of the Empire.
0	It is a strange thing, this transference of emotion.
0	Oh, yes; it was a bad business.
0	The horror, whatever it was, had not yet entirely spoiled that marvellous beauty.
0	They always want a sixth act, and as soon as the interest of the play is entirely over, they propose to continue it.
0	"This is your doing, Harry," said the painter bitterly.
0	She had sent her soul to search for him, and it had brought him back.
0	"And now, my dear fellow, I want to speak to you seriously.
0	* * * * * And after the third year was over, the Soul came down to the shore of the sea, and called to the young Fisherman, and he rose out of the deep and said, ‘Why dost thou call to me?’ And the Soul answered, ‘Come nearer, that I may speak with thee, for I have seen marvellous things.’ So he came nearer, and couched in the shallow water, and leaned his head upon his hand and listened.
0	But there was no motive power in experience.
0	I am sure I hope so, but the sky is quite blue and cloudless.
0	Don’t lose your temper; you have only got one.
0	I knew we should come to an amicable agreement.
0	Not she alone, but all of us are stricken in her house.
0	However, let us leave what is really a very sordid side of the subject, and return to the question of popular control in the matter of Art, by which I mean Public Opinion dictating to the artist the form which he is to use, the mode in which he is to use it, and the materials with which he is to work.
0	Who told them to exercise authority?
0	No doubt Homer had old ballads and stories to deal with, as Shakespeare had chronicles and plays and novels from which to work, but they were merely his rough material.
0	Be silent, I say Salomé, think of what you are doing.
0	In fact, I have not been able to do anything for you, as far as I can see.
0	But the mere fact that they are interested in these things makes them unsuitable subjects for Art.
0	What extraordinary ideas you have about the way to behave to a woman!
0	It is one of the greatest things in modern art.
0	Indeed, it is not even decent .
0	One more thing I cannot help saying to you.
0	Write to me when you are coming.
0	Yes, you took it—and spoiled it all last night by being found out.
0	Even now I cannot help feeling that it is a mistake to think that the passion one feels in creation is ever really shown in the work one creates.
0	The world says that Lord Illingworth is very, very wicked.
0	The few words she had to speak--     Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much,         Which mannerly devotion shows in this;     For saints have hands that pilgrims' hands do touch,         And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss-- with the brief dialogue that follows, were spoken in a thoroughly artificial manner.
0	And it has a price, pretty boy, it has a price.
0	But I can’t believe that my husband is untrue to me.
0	Sitting down at the writing-table he scribbled a note to Lord Henry, asking him to send him round something to read and reminding him that they were to meet at eight-fifteen that evening.
0	But the thing that had been sitting at the table was gone.
0	Of course I admit that the faults were all on my side.
0	They are made of rare sapphires, which were brought out of India a thousand years ago.
0	You built up your career on dishonour!
0	You know what is in it?
0	After all, his indifference was probably merely a mood that would pass away.
0	Of course, I knew that was impossible.
0	No, no, you would not have that.
0	But he put the marriage off from week to week, and month to month.—She trusted in him all the while.
0	“Now I am going off!” he cried, and he made himself very stiff and straight.
0	Yes:  I should fancy that was his end.
0	He seized the lighted candle, and held it to the picture.
0	Now, I wonder would you give it to me?
0	I don’t complain of their punishment.
0	He would not see Lord Henry any more--would not, at any rate, listen to those subtle poisonous theories that in Basil Hallward's garden had first stirred within him the passion for impossible things.
0	Behind him stood his brother, Don Pedro of Aragon, whom he hated, and his confessor, the Grand Inquisitor of Granada, sat by his side.
0	Mine is the general rule, and nothing ages a woman so rapidly as having married the general rule.
0	Wonder what his correspondence is like.
0	Robert, you love your wife, don’t you?
0	What is he talking of?
0	The fascination that she had exercised over him would return.
0	I don’t think man has much capacity for development.
0	Common sense is the privilege of our sex.
0	I myself don’t believe she ran away more than once.
0	You see, I shan't have any delay about luggage, as I have sent on my heavy things.
0	And what is the result?
0	It is very, very helpful.
0	All bad poetry springs from genuine feeling.
0	To offer it to you on conditions.
0	EVERY evening the young Fisherman went out upon the sea, and threw his nets into the water.
0	He is like an image of silver.
0	I hope, at any rate, that you are going to take up your residence here.” “Oh!
0	If Sir Robert doesn’t uphold my Argentine scheme, I expose him.
0	What would you have them bring thee in a silver charger?
0	I walked on without trembling, and drawing the heavy curtain aside I entered in.
0	You must never know that.—As for me, if suffering be an expiation, then at this moment I have expiated all my faults, whatever they have been; for to-night you have made a heart in one who had it not, made it and broken it.—But let that pass.
0	Let him share it with me.
0	Then Mrs. Erlynne sets an admirable example to the rest of her sex.
0	Come and see me soon.
0	Let me kiss thy mouth.
0	And the sea covered the young Fisherman with its waves.
0	You have done your worst now.
0	The daughter must not be like the mother—that would be terrible.
0	“It’s quite clear that they love each other,” said the little Page, “as clear as crystal!” and the King doubled his salary a second time.
0	I hope you are not going to leave me all alone with Lord Goring?
0	[Puts the card in his pocket.]
0	Why should I interfere with her illusions?
0	He was very much admired indeed.
0	‘Thou art the best of the witches,’ cried the young Fisherman, ‘and I will surely dance with thee to-night on the top of the mountain.
0	I would die to save you.
0	I want to have a salon.
0	_A curse breaks from her_.]
0	It is a delight to me to think that as far as his conversation was concerned, Charmides might have listened to him, and Socrates reasoned with him, and Plato understood him: that he really said [Greek text], that when he thought of the lilies of the field and how they neither toil nor spin, his absolute expression was [Greek text], and that his last word when he cried out 'my life has been completed, has reached its fulfilment, has been perfected,' was exactly as St. John tells us it was: [Greek text]--no more.
0	His crimes seem to have had an important effect upon his art.
0	Desire, at the end, was a malady, or a madness, or both.
0	BAD Rocket?” he said, as he whirled through the air; “impossible!
0	[_Holding out her hands to her_, _helplessly_, _as a child might do_.]
0	But it is only the material result that it gains, and the man who is poor is in himself absolutely of no importance.
0	The worse their rhymes are, the more picturesque they look.
0	The painter is so far limited that it is only through the mask of the body that he can show us the mystery of the soul; only through conventional images that he can handle ideas; only through its physical equivalents that he can deal with psychology.
0	It can help us to leave the age in which we were born, and to pass into other ages, and find ourselves not exiled from their air.
0	Therefore go back to thy Palace and put on thy purple and fine linen.
0	I don't like novels that end happily.
0	See that everything is ready by half-past ten.
0	It is so difficult to keep 'heights that the soul is competent to gain.'
0	‘There is a chamber in the palace that has eight walls of red porphyry, and a brass-sealed ceiling hung with lamps.
0	I am nearly always at home at five o'clock.
0	I don't care for anybody in the whole world but you.
0	That is the worst of women.
0	[_These people enter as announced_.]
0	He was even very fair.
0	I hope it will last.
0	It is quite a gift.
0	Well I know that thou wouldst have loved me, and the mystery of love is greater than the mystery of death.
0	From some chimney opposite a thin wreath of smoke was rising.
0	Why is it that at a bachelor's establishment the servants invariably drink the champagne?
0	When I married Lord Bracknell I had no fortune of any kind.
0	But perhaps you think that in beholding for the mere joy of beholding, and contemplating for the sake of contemplation, there is something that is egotistic.
0	Tommy Trafford is in great disgrace.
0	"I had intended never to enter your house again, Gray.
0	It is something that at a time of disgrace and shame I should still be regarded as an artist.
0	The politician looked at him keenly.
0	I think we all do fit in very nicely together.
0	Don’t spoil it by saying extravagant silly things to me.
0	No artist has ethical sympathies.
0	Beyond that I can learn nothing.
0	The manuscript unfortunately was abandoned.
0	"I am waiting," he cried.
0	And he’s only left Oxford a few months—I really don’t know what they teach them there.
0	You will see them twinkle when I talk to them about the pretty bride.” “Ah!
0	“That is a very selfish reason,” said the Rocket angrily.
0	Personally, I have very little to reproach myself with, on the score of thinking.
0	His father had been our ambassador at Madrid when Isabella was young and Prim unthought of, but had retired from the diplomatic service in a capricious moment of annoyance on not being offered the Embassy at Paris, a post to which he considered that he was fully entitled by reason of his birth, his indolence, the good English of his dispatches, and his inordinate passion for pleasure.
0	"Mother, are my things ready?"
0	"Keep quiet," said the man.
0	You must be in love.
0	Her eyes were lit with an exquisite fire.
0	I made arrangements this morning with Dr. Chasuble to be christened myself at 5.30, and I naturally will take the name of Ernest.
0	“This broken lead heart will not melt in the furnace.
0	For a class that welcomes the incompetent with sympathetic eagerness, and that confuses the bizarre with the beautiful, and vulgarity with truth, they are extremely accomplished.
0	But he had better prepare himself.
0	"Mother, I have something to ask you," he said.
0	It was like a dreadful wax image.
0	This point about the drama is hardly, I think, sufficiently recognised.
0	Knows perfectly well what a demmed fool I am—knows it as well as I do myself.
0	[_Sits beside her on the sofa_.]
0	And in criticising painters so different as Landseer and Martin, Stothard and Etty, he shows that, to use a phrase now classical, he is trying ‘to see the object as in itself it really is.’ However, as I pointed out before, he never feels quite at his ease in his criticisms of contemporary work.
0	What do you mean, sir?
0	For the stage is not merely the meeting-place of all the arts, but is also the return of art to life.
0	The birds did not care to sing in it as there were no children, and the trees forgot to blossom.
0	I clutch at every chance.
0	As for keeping myself dry, there is evidently no one here who can at all appreciate an emotional nature.
0	Even small details of dress, such as the colour of a major-domo’s stockings, the pattern on a wife’s handkerchief, the sleeve of a young soldier, and a fashionable woman’s bonnets, become in Shakespeare’s hands points of actual dramatic importance, and by some of them the action of the play in question is conditioned absolutely.
0	Sprinkling is all that is necessary, or indeed I think advisable.
0	‘Thou hast slain a third of my servants,’ she cried, ‘get thee gone.
0	Are you quite well this morning?
0	The modern method is to vulgarise them.
0	But have we really met before, Lady Chiltern?
0	Of course I had private information about a certain transaction contemplated by the Government of the day, and I acted on it.
0	He saw no other basis.
0	One touch of Nature may make the whole world kin, but two touches of Nature will destroy any work of Art.
0	"I know you will laugh at me," he replied, "but I really can't exhibit it.
0	You are more to me than anything in the whole world.
0	Even in actual life egotism is not without its attractions.
0	Human slavery is wrong, insecure, and demoralising.
0	I do not say that poet and painter may not treat of the same subject.
0	Miss Cardew seems to me a most attractive young lady, now that I look at her.
0	And a very good thing too.
0	There are forms of patriotism that are really quite degrading.
0	As I rode past the farm this morning, I saw her white face at the window, like a spray of jasmine.
0	but we have, in our dreams,” answered the children; and the Mathematical Master frowned and looked very severe, for he did not approve of children dreaming.
0	Let us talk about _Moral Indignation_, _its Cause and Cure_, a subject on which I think of writing: or about _The Survival of Thersites_, as shown by the English comic papers; or about any topic that may turn up.
0	Even in later days, too, he was always reticent on the matter, and preferred to speak about ‘The Excursion,’ and the ‘Poems founded on the Affections.’  There is no doubt, however, that the poison that he used was strychnine.
0	"I should think it was, Harry.
0	When they reached the top landing, Dorian took out the key and turned it in the lock.
0	The women sidled up and began to chatter.
0	After a few moments--that were to him, in his perturbed state, like endless hours of pain--he felt a hand laid on his shoulder.
0	Concerning himself primarily with the impression that the work of art produces, Aristotle sets himself to analyse that impression, to investigate its source, to see how it is engendered.
0	Yes, he was certainly wonderfully handsome, with his finely curved scarlet lips, his frank blue eyes, his crisp gold hair.
0	But may it not be that the poet is the best judge of poetry, and the painter of painting?
0	So he jumped off the ladder, and ran down the garden, and looked over the wall.
0	[_Moves towards with_ MRS. ALLONBY [LADY CAROLINE _enters_, _looks rapidly round and goes off in opposite direction to that taken by_ SIR JOHN _and_ LADY STUTFIELD.]
0	They had come out on the terrace, and paid her nice compliments.
0	It is he who shall be eaten of worms.
0	in the cleft of a great oak-tree he saw the piece of white gold that he was seeking.
0	He thanked him, wondered why he refused to accept any money for them, and began to eat them listlessly.
0	Surely it was not still so horrible as it had been?
0	Rachel, I want you to look at this matter from the common-sense point of view, from the point of view of what is best for our son, leaving you and me out of the question.
0	Or stay:  just leave my things out for dressing.
0	Why, Lord Mortlake was never anything more to me than an amusement.
0	Isn’t it nice and old-fashioned?
0	The insurance companies, suspecting the real facts of the case, declined to pay the policy on the technical ground of misrepresentation and want of interest, and, with curious courage, the poisoner entered an action in the Court of Chancery against the Imperial, it being agreed that one decision should govern all the cases.
0	now I try to say to myself, and sometimes when I am not torturing myself do really and sincerely say, 'What a beginning, what a wonderful beginning!'
0	What I mean is this.
0	You have taken Agatha out on the terrace, and she is so delicate.
0	But I really don’t know.
0	I thought it was the Yellow Drawing-room, my memory is getting so defective.
0	And unselfish people are colourless.
0	He does not require you.
0	I wrote to you this morning, and sent the note down by my own man."
0	"Yet you poisoned me with a book once.
0	[_R._]  Now really, Mrs. Erlynne, allow me to explain.
0	"My father was a scoundrel then!"
0	I suppose in about a fortnight we shall be told that he has been seen in San Francisco.
0	The final revelation is that Lying, the telling of beautiful untrue things, is the proper aim of Art.
0	I admit, however, that he set far too high a value on modernity of form, and that, consequently, there is no book of his that, as an artistic masterpiece, can rank with _Salammbô_ or _Esmond_, or _The Cloister and the Hearth_, or the _Vicomte de Bragelonne_.
0	The poor children had now nowhere to play.
0	No, father; but the lady is like me.
0	Now, what name was I given?
0	I saw her in 1884 in Paris, where she was living with her mother, and I asked her whether the story had had anything to do with her action.
0	No matter what harm she tries to do us, you must never see her again.
0	You would be quite blind then.” “Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow,” said the Prince, “do as I command you.” So he plucked out the Prince’s other eye, and darted down with it.
0	On the curved side he would write the name of his friend.
0	It is always worth while asking a question, though it is not always worth while answering one.
0	One should always have something sensational to read in the train.
0	But I suppose when sinners talk to saints they are brutal always.
0	They are sent over to us every summer, regularly, in the steamers, and propose to us the day after they land.
0	I said I would go back to her.
0	You have a delightful opportunity now of paying me a compliment, Windermere.
0	Whatever I have done that is good, I owe to you.
0	Jealousy, which is an extraordinary source of crime in modern life, is an emotion closely bound up with our conceptions of property, and under Socialism and Individualism will die out.
0	The gold was stored in coffers of elephant-hide, and the gold-dust in leather bottles.
0	He had something on his mind to ask of her, something that he had brooded on for many months of silence.
0	They never chattered about sunsets, or discussed whether the shadows on the grass were really mauve or not.
0	And the deacons came in and began to unrobe him, and took from him the alb and the girdle, the maniple and the stole.
0	In situations of that kind we often forget to say anything about marriage, and they always remind us."
0	He may not have intended it, the result was the same."
0	Then we must entirely cultivate it at once.
0	He was not so finely bred as his sister.
0	It is to be regretted that a portion of our community should be practically in slavery, but to propose to solve the problem by enslaving the entire community is childish.
0	There is famine in the walled cities of India, and the cisterns of Samarcand have run dry.
0	And a sentimentalist, my dear Darlington, is a man who sees an absurd value in everything, and doesn’t know the market price of any single thing.
0	Don't leave me, Basil, and don't quarrel with me.
0	Failure, disgrace, poverty, sorrow, despair, suffering, tears even, the broken words that come from lips in pain, remorse that makes one walk on thorns, conscience that condemns, self- abasement that punishes, the misery that puts ashes on its head, the anguish that chooses sack-cloth for its raiment and into its own drink puts gall:--all these were things of which I was afraid.
0	“‘There is no good in my going to see little Hans as long as the snow lasts,’ the Miller used to say to his wife, ‘for when people are in trouble they should be left alone, and not be bothered by visitors.
0	The principles of the latter, as they laid them down, are, in many cases, so subtle that we can hardly understand them.
0	Cecily is the sweetest, dearest, prettiest girl in the whole world.
0	Its head was bald and burnished; its face round, and fat, and white; and hideous laughter seemed to have writhed its features into an eternal grin.
0	I do _not_ love him!
0	We were friends once, Alan."
0	I admire him immensely for it.
0	As I said to Harry, once, you are made to be worshipped."
0	Pray allow me to believe that you are not.
0	So the newspapers are always telling us.
0	He is polishing his dainty armour, and combing the scarlet plume.
0	The youth of the present day are quite monstrous.
0	From the desert, where he fed on locusts and wild honey.
0	It simply suggests some methods by which we could revive this lost art of Lying.
0	You know Gertrude has always worn seven and three-quarters?
0	He could see no change, save that in the eyes there was a look of cunning and in the mouth the curved wrinkle of the hypocrite.
0	To-morrow, like the music of which Aristotle and Plato tell us, the noble Dorian music of the Greek, it may perform the office of a physician, and give us an anodyne against pain, and heal the spirit that is wounded, and ‘bring the soul into harmony with all right things.’  And what is true about music is true about all the arts.
0	Mother, what is your objection to Lord Illingworth?
0	In fact, people’s houses are, as a rule, quite charming nowadays.
0	I forgot all about it.
0	Even when they drew him crucified they drew him as a beautiful God on whom evil men had inflicted suffering.
0	He is never more present in my work than when no image of him is there.
0	"Can you move it, covering and all, just as it is?
0	Romeo was a stout elderly gentleman, with corked eyebrows, a husky tragedy voice, and a figure like a beer-barrel.
0	Well, you are a lucky fellow!
0	And yet how difficult to decide between the claims of the various schools!
0	She was sent away for being a thief.
0	Suddenly there came a knock to the door, and he heard Lord Henry's voice outside.
0	* * * * * And in the morning the Priest went forth to bless the sea, for it had been troubled.
0	They will follow you whithersoever you go, and in the midst of them you will be like the moon in the midst of a great white cloud....
0	Do you not see your daughter, how pale she is?
0	Intellectual criticism will bind Europe together in bonds far closer than those that can be forged by shopman or sentimentalist.
0	Remember this, and you will be able to understand a little of why I am writing, and in this manner writing.
0	My dear fellow, the sooner you give up that nonsense the better.
0	Cecily is not a silly romantic girl, I am glad to say.
0	It was done before I was married.
0	Which of us should tell them?
0	I couldn’t believe that any women could really hold such views of life as I have heard to-night from some of your guests.
0	I suppose, Windermere, you would like me to retire into a convent, or become a hospital nurse, or something of that kind, as people do in silly modern novels.
0	The presence of Adrian Singleton troubled him.
0	It is a theory that has never been put forward before, but it is extremely fruitful, and throws an entirely new light upon the history of Art.
0	It makes me horribly dependent on you.
0	They would interest me enormously.
0	By its curiosity Sin increases the experience of the race.
0	You may lose them as you grow old.
0	"Sibyl, you are mad about him."
0	But your career will have to be entirely domestic.
0	How well he remembered it all!
0	One feels there must be something in him, after all.
0	Yes; I am going to live abroad again.
0	They are, however, interested in the drama, and as a certain advance has been made in the drama within the last ten or fifteen years, it is important to point out that this advance is entirely due to a few individual artists refusing to accept the popular want of taste as their standard, and refusing to regard Art as a mere matter of demand and supply.
0	So that was the story of Dorian Gray's parentage.
0	Your friend Lord Henry Wotton can't have taught you much about psychology, whatever else he has taught you.
0	It is quite dreadful, but it only lasts for about five minutes.
0	Then he began to feel a curious tingling sensation all over him.
0	"Mr. Dorian Gray is in the studio, sir," said the butler, coming into the garden.
0	[_The slaves put out the torches.
0	"No, she will never come to life.
0	And all the women would think her a fool and the men think her a bore.
0	At the time when Miss Prism left me in the hand-bag, had I been christened already?
0	"I know that, but you might tell me."
0	The wisest thing I ever did in my life.
0	There are times when sorrow seems to me to be the only truth.
0	For eighteen months their intimacy lasted.
0	You are on the brink of ruin, you are on the brink of a hideous precipice.
0	Certainly, whether this be so or not, it was to his blindness, as an occasion, if not as a cause, that England’s great poet owed much of the majestic movement and sonorous splendour of his later verse.
0	When Lord Henry came in at six o'clock, he found him crying as one whose heart will break.
0	"Yes," he said, smiling, "I see the gardener waiting for you.
0	Oh, ask Mrs. Erlynne to be kind enough to come up.
0	"I have never told any one, Cecil," said Virginia, gravely.
0	Dorian, from the moment I met you, your personality had the most extraordinary influence over me.
0	They were not part of my scheme of life.
0	And every year he became more beautiful to look at, so that all those who dwelt in the village were filled with wonder, for, while they were swarthy and black-haired, he was white and delicate as sawn ivory, and his curls were like the rings of the daffodil.
0	Certainly we are a degraded race, and have sold our birthright for a mess of facts.
0	It is always more difficult to destroy than it is to create, and when what one has to destroy is vulgarity and stupidity, the task of destruction needs not merely courage but also contempt.
0	Go before it kills me: but don’t ask me to meet him.
0	At what time shall I be back?"
0	Imogen is waiting for me.
0	I wish to see him.
0	[_Sighs_, _and goes towards the door_.]
0	The centre of the picture is filled by     shady meadows, sinking down to a river-mouth; beyond is ‘the vast     strength of the ocean stream,’ from whose floor the extinguisher of     stars, rosy Aurora, drives furiously up her brine-washed steeds to     behold the death-pangs of her rival.
0	It is too late, Arthur, to say that now.
0	He sat up, and having sipped some tea, turned over his letters.
0	When we hear the voice of his agony we are glad, and Virgil praises us for the bitterness of our scorn.
0	If a woman really repents, she never wishes to return to the society that has made or seen her ruin.
0	If she did accept you she would be the prettiest fool in England.
0	You will bitterly reproach him in your own heart, and seriously think that he has behaved very badly to you.
0	One is of white gold, and another is of yellow gold, and the gold of the third one is red.
0	I am glad you are of so fair a humour to-night.
0	Did you say that, Agatha?
0	Upon my word, there is a good deal of common sense in that, Lady Chiltern.
0	"How can you say that?
0	And the tree broke at once into blossom, and the birds came and sang on it, and the little boy stretched out his two arms and flung them round the Giant’s neck, and kissed him.
0	The third doctrine is that Life imitates Art far more than Art imitates Life.
0	But all life is very, very sad, is it not?
0	I am sorry I sat for it.
0	There was no reason, according to your views of life, why you should have remembered us at all.
0	Then it is I who am lost!
0	Mrs. Erlynne’s carriage has come.
0	Most people are other people.
0	cried Dorian in his petulant way, flinging himself down on the sofa.
0	I said to her things that were hideously true, on my side, from my stand-point, from the standpoint of men.
0	Rachel, Gerald knows everything about you and me now, so some arrangement must be come to that will suit us all three.
0	Alberigo prays us to break the ice upon his face that he may weep a little.
0	It was the creation of such worlds as these that seemed to Dorian Gray to be the true object, or amongst the true objects, of life; and in his search for sensations that would be at once new and delightful, and possess that element of strangeness that is so essential to romance, he would often adopt certain modes of thought that he knew to be really alien to his nature, abandon himself to their subtle influences, and then, having, as it were, caught their colour and satisfied his intellectual curiosity, leave them with that curious indifference that is not incompatible with a real ardour of temperament, and that, indeed, according to certain modern psychologists, is often a condition of it.
0	The strange figures of poetic drama and ballad are made by the imagination of others, but out of his own imagination entirely did Jesus of Nazareth create himself.
0	Over the low roofs and jagged chimney-stacks of the houses rose the black masts of ships.
0	Nay, I would say that the more objective a creation appears to be, the more subjective it really is.
0	But she would not be appeased, but mocked at him, and spoke angrily, and cried: ‘Our children lack bread, and shall we feed the child of another?
0	Of what value is my soul to me?
0	Egad, I was ashamed of him.
0	But is such work as you have talked about really criticism?
0	What does this mean, sir?
0	People who live entirely for pleasure usually are.
0	I am quite ready to say so.
0	He dare not kill him.
0	"You had better take care.
0	Why, he rides in the Row at ten o’clock in the morning, goes to the Opera three times a week, changes his clothes at least five times a day, and dines out every night of the season.
0	We are merely carrying out, with footnotes and unnecessary additions, the whim or fancy or creative vision of a great novelist.
0	Still, even in Shelley the note of rebellion is sometimes too strong.
0	Then I am sorry for you, Gertrude, very sorry for you.
0	Your aunt was quite right in what she said of him.
0	To look at anything that is inconstant is charming nowadays.
0	Secrets from other people’s wives are a necessary luxury in modern life.
0	Her eyelids were warm with his breath.
0	He has discovered how to live.
0	Society often forgives the criminal; it never forgives the dreamer.
0	I am afraid I really don't know.
0	It is so beautiful that I am sure it has a long Latin name”; and he leaned down and plucked it.
0	I do not desire to talk of it.
0	What was he to say of that?
0	You want me to tell Robert that the woman you expected was not Mrs. Cheveley, but myself?
0	I am not quite sure.
0	I am sorry to hear it.
0	Catherine de Medicis had a mourning-bed made for her of black velvet powdered with crescents and suns.
0	“It is very cold here,” he said; “but I will stay with you for one night, and be your messenger.” “Thank you, little Swallow,” said the Prince.
0	After about ten minutes he got up, and throwing on an elaborate dressing-gown of silk-embroidered cashmere wool, passed into the onyx-paved bathroom.
0	"Courage has passed from men to women.
0	My husband sent you to lure me back that I might serve as a blind to whatever relations exist between you and him.
0	"You have saved me from ruin, Alan.
0	I do not approve of anything that tampers with natural ignorance.
0	Won't you come and sit here, Gwendolen?
0	It means a very brilliant future in store for you.
0	As he was going downstairs, he heard the key being turned in the lock.
0	"I fear that the ghost exists," said Lord Canterville, smiling, "though it may have resisted the overtures of your enterprising impresarios.
0	But German sounds a thoroughly respectable language, and indeed, I believe is so.
0	One morning the Giant was lying awake in bed when he heard some lovely music.
0	It was a marvellous spotted thing, as effective as the seven deadly sins.
0	But while there were times when I rejoiced in the idea that my sufferings were to be endless, I could not bear them to be without meaning.
0	What an impetuous boy he is!
0	But he could not stand stupid people, especially those who are made stupid by education: people who are full of opinions not one of which they even understand, a peculiarly modern type, summed up by Christ when he describes it as the type of one who has the key of knowledge, cannot use it himself, and does not allow other people to use it, though it may be made to open the gate of God's Kingdom.
0	Why do you look at her?
0	In fact, it does more than linger; it is aggressive, offensive, and brutalising.
0	“It is curious,” he remarked, “but I feel quite warm now, although it is so cold.” “That is because you have done a good action,” said the Prince.
0	It was a melancholy meal, as hardly any one spoke, and even the twins were awestruck and subdued, as they were very fond of their sister.
0	As he investigated the subject--and he always had an extraordinary faculty of becoming absolutely absorbed for the moment in whatever he took up--he was almost saddened by the reflection of the ruin that time brought on beautiful and wonderful things.
0	Our lives lie too far apart.
0	I hope my wife will give it you.
0	“We must have another statue, of course,” he said, “and it shall be a statue of myself.” “Of myself,” said each of the Town Councillors, and they quarrelled.
0	You never came out after all.
0	The nineteenth century, as we know it, is largely an invention of Balzac.
0	came from Sir Thomas's tight lips.
0	I fancy in American dry goods.
0	Once it had given him pleasure to watch it changing and growing old.
0	I don't think I am heartless.
0	Oh, the Ideal Man should talk to us as if we were goddesses, and treat us as if we were children.
0	The walls were of white alabaster, set here and there with blue and green tiles.
0	Women treat us just as humanity treats its gods.
0	For action of every kind belongs to the sphere of ethics.
0	And each day the sound of her voice became sweeter to his ears.
0	Inside, in the servants' part of the house, the half-clad domestics were talking in low whispers to each other.
0	They opened a gate of wrought ivory, and I found myself in a watered garden of seven terraces.
0	Only a great man can write it.
0	"There is sure to be something on, somewhere.
0	In all that I have said I am simply concerned with my own mental attitude towards life as a whole; and I feel that not to be ashamed of having been punished is one of the first points I must attain to, for the sake of my own perfection, and because I am so imperfect.
0	Upon the other hand, Socialism itself will be of value simply because it will lead to Individualism.
0	He would do what you asked him, wouldn’t he?
0	* * * * * And the Star-Child went out of the gate of the city, and came to the wood of which the Magician had spoken to him.
0	It was a Pope who said of Cellini to a conclave of Cardinals that common laws and common authority were not made for men such as he; but it was a Pope who thrust Cellini into prison, and kept him there till he sickened with rage, and created unreal visions for himself, and saw the gilded sun enter his room, and grew so enamoured of it that he sought to escape, and crept out from tower to tower, and falling through dizzy air at dawn, maimed himself, and was by a vine-dresser covered with vine leaves, and carried in a cart to one who, loving beautiful things, had care of him.
0	They would not be good for you.
0	_There is a look of wonderful joy in her face_.]
0	"I wish now I had not told you about Sibyl Vane."
0	"I am sorry to have had to wake you up, Francis," he said, stepping in; "but I had forgotten my latch-key.
0	[_Shakes her fan at him_.]
0	I tell you you are thirty-four, sir.
0	Either to drive him from public life, or to make him adopt a dishonourable position.
0	From him, at any rate, he was safe.
0	His desire was to be to the myriads who had found no utterance a very trumpet through which they might call to heaven.
0	When she acts, you will forget everything.
0	There was still some gold in the thinning hair and some scarlet on the sensual mouth.
0	But do you really think a man’s chin can be too square?
0	It’s my husband’s birthday present to me.
0	Then we will talk of it on the terrace.
0	Salomé looks at him and steps slowly back._] Where is he whose cup of abominations is now full?
0	He buried his face in his hands, and when the Infanta looked up again the curtains had been drawn, and the King had retired.
0	You don’t know Lord Illingworth, I believe, dear.
0	His lordship is engaged at present with Lord Caversham, madam.
0	There is danger in Popes.
0	It would distress me more than I can tell you, dear Gwendolen, if it caused you any mental or physical anguish, but I feel bound to point out that since Ernest proposed to you he clearly has changed his mind.
0	Phipps, there is a lady coming to see me this evening on particular business.
0	[SIR JOHN _goes over to his [MRS. ARBUTHNOT watches LORD ILLINGWORTH the whole time.
0	"You are certainly very natural in America," answered Lord Canterville, who did not quite understand Mr. Otis's last observation, "and if you don't mind a ghost in the house, it is all right.
0	There is really not a single form that art now uses that does not come to us from the critical spirit of Alexandria, where these forms were either stereotyped or invented or made perfect.
0	Algy, you always adopt a strictly immoral attitude towards life.
0	Pardon, not punishment, is their mission.
0	People may chatter about her, do chatter about her, of course, but they don’t know anything definite against her.
0	Man is now so developing Individualism.
0	What more can one want?
0	It was vividly and dramatically expressed.
0	You might have followed us.
0	[SIR ROBERT _hands her the letter_.
0	Indeed, when I am in really great trouble, as any one who knows me intimately will tell you, I refuse everything except food and drink.
0	And the Greeks are Gentiles: They are not even circumcised.
0	Do you indeed trust me, and want me?
0	He waited for a moment, still pressing the head down.
0	You’re getting annoying, dear-boy; you’re getting demmed annoying.
0	He wanted to find her alone, and to tell her that he too loved her.
0	[LORD GORING _passes into the conservatory_.]
0	And very good bread and butter it is too.
0	Ask it of me and I will give it you.
0	Or come in the evening, at any rate.
0	"My dear Harry, my dear Basil, you must both congratulate me!"
0	But was it something very, very wrong that Mr. Allonby did?
0	And they who possess this mirror know everything, nor is there anything hidden from them.
0	Had they put it into words, it might not live within us as thought.
0	I felt that you were false and deceitful.
0	He loosened his hold and reeled back.
0	But I tell you that the only bitter words that ever came from those sweet lips of hers were on your account, and I hate to see you next her.
0	She felt as if she was in a terrible dream.
0	‘In front of the temple was a pool of clear water paved with veined onyx.
0	I dare not ask the servants to bring me his letters.
0	I wonder do I know you?
0	Did any one see you going round to her room?
0	Because I think that life is far too important a thing ever to talk seriously about it.
0	Crowned with heavy lotus-blossoms you had sat on the prow of Adrian's barge, gazing across the green turbid Nile.
0	But wherever we have returned to Life and Nature, our work has always become vulgar, common and uninteresting.
0	No, Ernest; life cheats us with shadows, like a puppet-master.
0	His face was strangely pale, but his lips were like a proud red flower.
0	“‘Little Hans is certainly a great loss to every one,’ said the Blacksmith, when the funeral was over, and they were all seated comfortably in the inn, drinking spiced wine and eating sweet cakes.
0	I am quite happy here."
0	But the essential thing for a necktie is style.
0	Sometimes, however, a tragedy that possesses artistic elements of beauty crosses our lives.
0	He had chasubles, also, of amber-coloured silk, and blue silk and gold brocade, and yellow silk damask and cloth of gold, figured with representations of the Passion and Crucifixion of Christ, and embroidered with lions and peacocks and other emblems; dalmatics of white satin and pink silk damask, decorated with tulips and dolphins and _fleurs-de-lis_; altar frontals of crimson velvet and blue linen; and many corporals, chalice-veils, and sudaria.
0	We should each have survived.
0	Upon my word, if I thought that, I'd shoot myself .
0	Mrs. Daubeny may fancy them.
0	The thing that you personally have long ago forgotten, or can easily forget, is happening to me now, and will happen to me again to- morrow.
0	[Jack looks indignantly at him, and leaves the room.
0	[_Looking at him with amazement that is almost terror_.]
0	She is so fond of photographs of Switzerland.
0	Then the moon rose like a wonderful silver shield; and the stars began to shine, and a sound of music came from the palace.
0	She saw the thin lips moving, and smiled.
0	There is before me so much to do, that I would regard it as a terrible tragedy if I died before I was allowed to complete at any rate a little of it.
0	Those seem to be the only two fashionable religions left to us nowadays.
0	I am so glad I don’t know what you mean, dear.
0	"Would you have me take the verdict of Europe on it?"
0	And though the mission of the æsthetic movement is to lure people to contemplate, not to lead them to create, yet, as the creative instinct is strong in the Celt, and it is the Celt who leads in art, there is no reason why in future years this strange Renaissance should not become almost as mighty in its way as was that new birth of Art that woke many centuries ago in the cities of Italy.
0	[Kneels at table, opens box, and produces letters tied up with blue ribbon.]
0	I have also in my possession, you will be pleased to hear, certificates of Miss Cardew's birth, baptism, whooping cough, registration, vaccination, confirmation, and the measles; both the German and the English variety.
0	The reference to helmets of the period in the prologue to _Henry the Fifth_ may be considered fanciful, though Shakespeare must have often seen              The very casque     That did affright the air at Agincourt, where it still hangs in the dusky gloom of Westminster Abbey, along with the saddle of that ‘imp of fame,’ and the dinted shield with its torn blue velvet lining and its tarnished lilies of gold; but the use of military tabards in _Henry the Sixth_ is a bit of pure archæology, as they were not worn in the sixteenth century; and the King’s own tabard, I may mention, was still suspended over his tomb in St. George’s Chapel, Windsor, in Shakespeare’s day.
0	It is only by language that we rise above them, or above each other—by language, which is the parent, and not the child, of thought.
0	If I hadn’t my debts I shouldn’t have anything to think about.
0	Then I will watch some one else.
0	You must put away your diary, Cecily.
0	Is that very vain of me?
0	[Cecily puts the rose in his buttonhole.]
0	One feels it as one wades through their columns.
0	Three times the outstretched arms shot up convulsively, waving grotesque, stiff-fingered hands in the air.
0	Dorian smiled and shook his head:  "I am afraid I don't think so, Lady Henry.
0	Every luxury that money could buy, including christening, had been lavished on you by your fond and doting parents.
0	I don’t know what we’re coming to!
0	You saw whom Lady Markby brought here to-night?
0	And Lady Caversham’s bonnets .
0	For the highest Criticism deals with art not as expressive but as impressive purely.
0	It is not to be found in Nature herself.
0	Even Art shows us that.
0	How cool the morning air is!
0	Then he lit a cigarette and flung himself down on the sofa.
0	‘In art,’ he says in one of his essays, ‘whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well’; and he points out that once we allow the intrusion of anachronisms, it becomes difficult to say where the line is to be drawn.
0	No, sir; I have called this evening for a definite purpose, and I am going to see it through at all costs to my health or yours.
0	And when the merchants saw him coming, they began to whisper to each other, and one of them came forth to meet him, and called him by name, and said to him, ‘What hast thou to sell?’ ‘I will sell thee my soul,’ he answered.
0	Echo bore it to her purple cavern in the hills, and woke the sleeping shepherds from their dreams.
0	Let us not talk about ambition.
0	I have read all that the wise men have written, and all the secrets of philosophy are mine, yet for want of a red rose is my life made wretched.” “Here at last is a true lover,” said the Nightingale.
0	"Alan, they will have to interest you.
0	You should leave that to people who haven't been at a University.
0	If you are not, then you have certainly been deceiving us all in a very inexcusable manner.
0	When I knew Lord Illingworth first as plain George Harford, he was simply a very brilliant young man about town, with not a penny of money except what poor dear Lady Cecilia gave him.
0	For twenty years of your life you lived without your child, without a thought of your child.
0	It will have done its work.
0	Nature has, in her eyes, no laws, no uniformity.
0	Your name was implicated in the most terrible confession I ever read.
0	The money that he gave me, he gave me not through love, but through hatred, not in worship, but in contempt.
0	Child of my shame, be still the child of my shame!
0	and giving note to_ PARKER.]
0	"I shall stay with the real Dorian," he said, sadly.
0	And now you had better dress and drive down to the club.
0	The room looked as if it had not been lived in for years.
0	They are lost, I tell thee, they are lost.
0	You told me to show her into that room, my lord.
0	He is a bad man.
0	Yet did his beauty work him evil.
0	Nobody is worthy to be loved.
0	He's gone to order the dog-cart for me.
0	But was our engagement ever broken off?
0	It is not my fault that this terrible tragedy has prevented my doing what was right.
0	I know lots of people there who would give a hundred thousand dollars to have a grandfather, and much more than that to have a family ghost."
0	Well, you’ll have lots of topics of conversation with _her_, Tuppy.
0	And yours is a very nasty scandal.
0	He does not think his natural thoughts, or burn with his natural passions.
0	opening into ball-room_, _where band is playing_.
0	It’s those horrid nieces of mine—the Saville girls—they’re always talking scandal.
0	It comes from the barbarous conception of authority.
0	You must tell me what people you would like to meet, though.
0	“But what became of the Miller?” asked the Water-rat.
0	[_Follows her in a bewildered manner_.]
0	I hope to goodness he won’t come up.
0	[_Standing L.C._]  Very small, very early, and very select, Duchess.
0	And three hours before dawn, and while it was still night, his Soul waked him and said to him, ‘Rise up and go to the room of the merchant, even to the room in which he sleepeth, and slay him, and take from him his gold, for we have need of it.’ And the young Fisherman rose up and crept towards the room of the merchant, and over the feet of the merchant there was lying a curved sword, and the tray by the side of the merchant held nine purses of gold.
0	Really, if the lower orders don't set us a good example, what on earth is the use of them?
0	He sighed and told her to manage things as she thought best.
0	"You would not say so if you saw her, Harry."
0	He tells them to be themselves, and not to be always worrying about other things.
0	Religion does not help me.
0	It’s been a delightful season, hasn’t it?
0	Sinon, the false Greek of Troy, mocks at him.
0	With his marvellous and vivid personality, with a style that has really a true colour-element in it, with his extraordinary power, not over mere mimicry but over imaginative and intellectual creation, Mr Irving, had his sole object been to give the public what they wanted, could have produced the commonest plays in the commonest manner, and made as much success and money as a man could possibly desire.
0	They always offer one the devotion of a lifetime.
0	She is very clever, too clever for a woman.
0	And now, Gerald, you are going into a perfectly new life with me, and I want you to know how to live.
0	It may be he is drunk with the wine of God.
0	And after a time she clenched her hands in anger.
0	When one is dictating one should speak fluently and not cough.
0	The great majority of people being fully aware of this, rank themselves naturally on the side of that splendid system that elevates them to the dignity of machines, and rage so wildly against the intrusion of the intellectual faculty into any question that concerns life, that one is tempted to define man as a rational animal who always loses his temper when he is called upon to act in accordance with the dictates of reason.
0	It is too splendid to be sane.
0	Following her, they passed through the fine Tudor hall into the library, a long, low room, panelled in black oak, at the end of which was a large stained glass window.
0	The last act was played to almost empty benches.
0	"You had better confess your sin, for as sure as I am James Vane, you are going to die."
0	I can't get on without you."
0	I will marry you as soon as you choose.
0	Vermilion-finned and with eyes of bossy gold, the tunnies went by in shoals, but he heeded them not.
0	"I am afraid I must be going, Basil," he murmured, "and before I go, I insist on your answering a question I put to you some time ago."
0	Its bright hair gleamed in the early sunlight.
0	Yes; there had been things in his boyhood that he had not understood.
0	But no one saw them, and so we do not know anything about them.
0	I have grown sick of shadows.
0	"For God's sake don't talk to me," cried Dorian, stamping his foot on the ground.
0	"Please don't go, Miss Virginia," he cried; "I am so lonely and so unhappy, and I really don't know what to do.
0	One of them was from Lord Henry, and had been brought by hand that morning.
0	‘It shall be,’ he said, ‘for the sceptre of the young King,’ and he made a sign to the negroes to draw up the anchor.
0	In what locality did this Mr. James, or Thomas, Cardew come across this ordinary hand-bag?
0	Lying back in the hansom, with his hat pulled over his forehead, Dorian Gray watched with listless eyes the sordid shame of the great city, and now and then he repeated to himself the words that Lord Henry had said to him on the first day they had met, "To cure the soul by means of the senses, and the senses by means of the soul."
0	Wasn't he one of your men?"
0	Shakespeare, in the spirit of the true artist, accepts the facts of the antiquarian and converts them into dramatic and picturesque effects: indeed the gown of humility, the ‘woolvish gown,’ as Shakespeare calls it, is the central note of the play.
0	I suppose you have read _The Times_ this morning?
0	I am delighted to hear it.
0	We watch ourselves, and the mere wonder of the spectacle enthralls us.
0	[Enter Cecily from the house.]
0	It is very sad, very sad indeed.
0	I am of clay like other men.
0	In the hall they found a group of frightened servants, and lying on a sofa in the library was poor Mrs. Otis, almost out of her mind with terror and anxiety, and having her forehead bathed with eau de cologne by the old housekeeper.
0	_After having carefully examined all the people present_, _he VICOMTE DE NANJAC.
0	He brought his daughter back with him, I was told, and she never spoke to him again.
0	And when the Bishop had heard them he knit his brows, and said, ‘My son, I am an old man, and in the winter of my days, and I know that many evil things are done in the wide world.
0	[_Goes out on_ LORD MRS. CHEVELEY.
0	To him, as to many others, Dorian Gray was the type of everything that is wonderful and fascinating in life.
0	Of course you are quite, quite sure that it is not Mr. Ernest Worthing who is your guardian?
0	In modern life margin is everything.
0	Art has made us myriad-minded.
0	It was the strangest book that he had ever read.
0	I would, if my articles hadn't been signed."
0	He sighed, and having poured himself out some tea, opened Lord Henry's note.
0	One could never pay too high a price for any sensation.
0	The man shook his head.
0	On the 22nd of last March.
0	"Eighteen years," said the man.
0	Actual life was chaos, but there was something terribly logical in the imagination.
0	But what a short time you have been in the dining-room!
0	Do you really keep a diary?
0	He is a very modern type."
0	In the actual life of man, sorrow, as Spinoza says somewhere, is a passage to a lesser perfection.
0	Standing under the shadow of the doorway, at the extreme end of the room, he saw a little figure watching him.
0	Absolutely longing to come in to you.
0	Pale poppies were broidered on the silk coverlet of the bed, as though they had fallen from the tired hands of sleep, and tall reeds of fluted ivory bare up the velvet canopy, from which great tufts of ostrich plumes sprang, like white foam, to the pallid silver of the fretted ceiling.
0	I have met Lord Goring before.
0	And self-sacrifice is a thing that should be put down by law.
0	"Dear Lady Narborough," murmured Dorian, smiling, "I have not been in love for a whole week--not, in fact, since Madame de Ferrol left town."
0	"My dear fellow, I am so sorry.
0	It forms part of the repertoire of the German stage, where it is performed more often than any play by any English writer except Shakespeare.
0	He invented a facile excuse, and having taken the vacant seat next to her, looked round to see who was there.
0	Shall I lay tea here as usual, Miss?
0	It can give us the exact science of mind in the process of becoming.
0	I was afraid I would find you plunged in remorse and tearing that nice curly hair of yours."
0	I will drink more wine with my guests.
0	“How fortunate it is for the King’s son,” he remarked, “that he is to be married on the very day on which I am to be let off.
0	The adjective was unnecessary, Lord Darlington.
0	He made no answer at first, but remained quite still.
0	No; my punishment, my real punishment is to-night, is now!
0	Twice in the year we sacrifice to them young men and maidens; fifty young men and a hundred maidens.
0	Thoroughly sensible woman, your mother, Gerald.
0	If ever I write again, in the sense of producing artistic work, there are just two subjects on which and through which I desire to express myself: one is 'Christ as the precursor of the romantic movement in life': the other is 'The artistic life considered in its relation to conduct.'
0	He is still the same.
0	I have a great deal to talk to you about, of demmed importance, too.
0	The favourites of James I wore ear-rings of emeralds set in gold filigrane.
0	but I have seen specimens of the inhabitants," answered the duchess vaguely.
0	I think my husband in right in his determination, Lord Caversham.
0	Such work is for the       artisan in literature--not for the artist.
0	Why cannot the artist be left alone, to create a new world if he wishes it, or, if not, to shadow forth the world which we already know, and of which, I fancy, we would each one of us be wearied if Art, with her fine spirit of choice and delicate instinct of selection, did not, as it were, purify it for us, and give to it a momentary perfection.
0	How absurdly English you are!
0	He was such a monster.
0	The last time I delivered it was in the Cathedral, as a charity sermon on behalf of the Society for the Prevention of Discontent among the Upper Orders.
0	You stop up too late—it is so bad for you.
0	As she was in the habit of going out to the garden every evening to get flowers for the dinner-table, Mrs. Otis was not at all alarmed at first, but when six o'clock struck, and Virginia did not appear, she became really agitated, and sent the boys out to look for her, while she herself and Mr. Otis searched every room in the house.
0	Once the mare swerved at a white gate-post and nearly threw him.
0	One tires, at the end, of the work of individuals whose individuality is always noisy, and generally uninteresting.
0	and there is still one muffin left.
0	When they say a work is grossly unintelligible, they mean that the artist has said or made a beautiful thing that is new; when they describe a work as grossly immoral, they mean that the artist has said or made a beautiful thing that is true.
0	He had the mysterious _juruparis_ of the Rio Negro Indians, that women are not allowed to look at and that even youths may not see till they have been subjected to fasting and scourging, and the earthen jars of the Peruvians that have the shrill cries of birds, and flutes of human bones such as Alfonso de Ovalle heard in Chile, and the sonorous green jaspers that are found near Cuzco and give forth a note of singular sweetness.
0	It does not seem to me to be at all probable.
0	"Late as usual, Harry," cried his aunt, shaking her head at him.
0	What a very strange arrangement!
0	Thou givest away what thou hast, and nought is given to thee in return.
0	She is like a princess who has little white doves for feet.
0	The middle classes air their moral prejudices over their gross dinner-tables, and whisper about what they call the profligacies of their betters in order to try and pretend that they are in smart society and on intimate terms with the people they slander.
0	I do not see how, with their lack of comprehension of what Art is, they could possibly use them in the proper sense.
0	Even you are not rich enough, Sir Robert, to buy back your past.
0	Why do you talk to me about this person?
0	In everything connected with the stage, for instance, he was always extremely interested, and strongly upheld the necessity for archæological accuracy in costume and scene-painting.
0	And mind you don’t take this little aberration of Windermere’s too much to heart.
0	I keep it there as a secret debt that I am glad to think I can never possibly repay.
0	He sighed and touched the bell.
0	"And you will tell our children some day, won't you?"
0	Lady Hunstanton, if Mrs. Arbuthnot would allow me, I would like to say a few words to her, and we will join you later on.
0	"Yes:  it is a matter of life and death, Alan, and to more than one person.
0	The aim of art is simply to create a mood.
0	The scene that occurred happened after Lady Markby had left, and was really forced on me by Gertrude’s rudeness and sneers.
0	But he said to her, ‘I have found something in the forest, and I have brought it to thee to have care of it,’ and he stirred not from the threshold.
0	I know now what you meant to-day at tea-time.
0	If a man’s work is easy to understand, an explanation is unnecessary.
0	Gwendolen, you will accompany me.
0	A sudden thought struck him.
0	What more can any moralist desire?
0	He who writes a new _De Amicitia_ must find a niche for them, and praise them in Tusculan prose.
0	I know you were engaged to be married to her once.
0	"Basil," said the lad, going over to him and putting his hand on his shoulder, "you have come too late.
0	I know it is a way she has.
0	"Those words mean nothing to me now."
0	After a few moments he drew back the latch and slipped out, shutting the door very gently behind him.
0	cried Hallward, looking up at him with an expression of horror.
0	How heavy this chest is!
0	I'll keep this as a proof that your name is Ernest if ever you attempt to deny it to me, or to Gwendolen, or to any one else.
0	Yes, there would be a day when his face would be wrinkled and wizen, his eyes dim and colourless, the grace of his figure broken and deformed.
0	The public like to insult poets because they are individual, but once they have insulted them, they leave them alone.
0	It is their distinguishing characteristic."
0	I had a telegram last night from the manager of the Grand Hotel.
0	Good artists exist simply in what they make, and consequently are perfectly uninteresting in what they are.
0	Do you count that to his credit, Lord Windermere—or to mine?
0	He visited all the public monuments, and sat a long time on top of the church steeple.
0	the old withered almond-tree has blossomed.
0	God has put into his mouth terrible words.
0	The production was remarkable on account of the beautiful dresses and mounting, for which Mr. Charles Ricketts was responsible, and the marvellous impersonation of Herod by Mr. Robert Farquharson.
0	Some one whom you must not see.
0	Now and then they heard a wood-pigeon brooding over its own sweet voice, or saw, deep in the rustling fern, the burnished breast of the pheasant.
0	Remember I am your mother.
0	You were the prettiest of playthings, the most fascinating of small romances .
0	A very charming red-chalk drawing of her by her brother-in-law is still in existence, and shows how much his style as an artist was influenced by Sir Thomas Lawrence, a painter for whose work he had always entertained a great admiration.
0	There are cliques in America as elsewhere, Lady Hunstanton.
0	‘At last they stopped at a square white house.
0	You can’t make people good by Act of Parliament,—that is something.
0	"You don't mean a single word of all that, Harry; you know you don't.
0	They had met at Lady Berkshire's the night that Rubinstein played there, and after that used to be always seen together at the opera and wherever good music was going on.
0	Yet, as has been said of him before, no theory of life seemed to him to be of any importance compared with life itself.
0	Mrs. Erlynne has a very great respect for dear Tuppy.
0	And while to the claims of charity a man may yield and yet be free, to the claims of conformity no man may yield and remain free at all.
0	Dorian was sleeping quite peacefully, lying on his right side, with one hand underneath his cheek.
0	The mere danger gave me a sense of delight.
0	A short cloak lined with sables hang from his shoulder, and his delicate white hands were gemmed with rings.
0	And as for altruism, who knew better than he that it is vocation not volition that determines us, and that one cannot gather grapes of thorns or figs from thistles?
0	The King of Cappadocia always lies, but he is no true king.
0	And the young Fisherman said to his Soul, ‘Is this the city in which she dances of whom thou didst speak to me?’ And his Soul answered him, ‘It is not this city, but another.
0	I know her views on life.
0	_She is in heliotrope_, _with diamonds_.
0	But I did not care.
0	It is for you to accept them.
0	And Windermere knows that nothing looks so like innocence as an indiscretion.
0	He has slain himself who was my friend!
0	You have made me see that."
0	You are very heartless, sir, very heartless.
0	Looks like an _édition de luxe_ of a wicked French novel, meant specially for the English market.
0	There won’t be any left for me.
0	And why is it so?
0	LORD WINDERMERE _moves to back of sofa_, _and anxiously watches_ MRS. ERLYNNE _as the scene progresses_.]
0	Did your father often speak to you of your mother?
0	I fancy, Caroline, that Diplomacy is what Lord Illingworth is aiming at.
0	Prince Charming rules life for us now."
0	One can fancy him lying there in the midst of his books and casts and engravings, a true virtuoso, a subtle connoisseur, turning over his fine collection of Mare Antonios, and his Turner’s ‘Liber Studiorum,’ of which he was a warm admirer, or examining with a magnifier some of his antique gems and cameos, ‘the head of Alexander on an onyx of two strata,’ or ‘that superb _altissimo relievo_ on cornelian, Jupiter Ægiochus.’  He was always a great amateur of engravings, and gives some very useful suggestions as to the best means of forming a collection.
0	Indeed, pictures of this kind are far too intelligible.
0	The critic, then, being limited to the subjective form, will necessarily be less able fully to express himself than the artist, who has always at his disposal the forms that are impersonal and objective.
0	Neither at things, nor at people should one look.
0	The hot tears came to his eyes.
0	I believe they have got a mauve Hungarian band that plays mauve Hungarian music.
0	I don’t know that I have been able to do much for you, Robert, as yet.
0	When Right is not Might, it is Evil.
0	Written in French in 1892 it was in full rehearsal by Madame Bernhardt at the Palace Theatre when it was prohibited by the Censor.
0	Two cranes flew round and round the vessel.
0	This is no time for wearing the shallow mask of manners.
0	He followed into the market and watched the men unloading their waggons.
0	The flowers which Ophelia carries with her in her madness are as pathetic as the violets that blossom on a grave; the effect of Lear’s wandering on the heath is intensified beyond words by his fantastic attire; and when Cloten, stung by the taunt of that simile which his sister draws from her husband’s raiment, arrays himself in that husband’s very garb to work upon her the deed of shame, we feel that there is nothing in the whole of modern French realism, nothing even in _Thérèse Raquin_, that masterpiece of horror, which for terrible and tragic significance can compare with this strange scene in _Cymbeline_.
0	Indeed it would be quite easy for a modern manager to reproduce these pageants absolutely as Shakespeare had them designed; and so accurate were they that one of the court officials of the time, writing an account of the last performance of the play at the Globe Theatre to a friend, actually complains of their realistic character, notably of the production on the stage of the Knights of the Garter in the robes and insignia of the order as being calculated to bring ridicule on the real ceremonies; much in the same spirit in which the French Government, some time ago, prohibited that delightful actor, M. Christian, from appearing in uniform, on the plea that it was prejudicial to the glory of the army that a colonel should be caricatured.
0	For life is terribly deficient in form.
0	"And I dare say it is only a fancy of mine.
0	He won’t take any interest in politics then, will he?
0	The plain facts of the case are these.
0	How strange the moon looks.
0	The priest rides by and tells his beads, and no man has care of us.
0	I hate waiting even five minutes for anybody.
0	A horrible sense of sickness came over him.
0	But she is happiest alone.
0	_At the top of the staircase stands_ LADY CHILTERN, _a woman of grave Greek beauty_, _about twenty-seven years of age_.
0	I listen but to the voice of the Lord God.
0	You know you loved me; and love is a very wonderful thing.
0	Yes: I believe I ventured upon that simple truth.
0	"Then he asked me if I wrote for any of the newspapers.
0	“Pray, what are you laughing at?” inquired the Rocket; “I am not laughing.” “I am laughing because I am happy,” replied the Cracker.
0	are there women so horrible as that .
0	How pretty you are looking!
0	Many men of letters went down to visit their old literary comrade.
0	The other kept munching scented pastilles, which he took with an affected gesture out of an oval box of lilac enamel.
0	Only in the garden of the Selfish Giant it was still winter.
0	My dear boy, I love hearing my relations abused.
0	Their origin is pure vanity.
0	When you came into the Drawing-room this evening, somehow you brought with you a sense of what is good and pure in life.
0	I must bear them alone.
0	He was thinking of Hetty Merton.
0	Only in mirrors should one look, for mirrors do but show us masks.
0	If he cared for me, he would have come after me, would have taken me back by force.
0	The faith that others give to what is unseen, I give to what one can touch, and look at.
0	I assure you, he will find in me the most charming and generous of fathers.
0	By the way, Dorian, you ran off very early last night.
0	The tilted roof was of sea-green porcelain, and the jutting eaves were festooned with little bells.
0	All I insist on is that, as a class, they are quite unreadable.
0	At last he got up and began to pace up and down the room, looking like a beautiful caged thing.
0	Indeed at times, as in _Germinal_, there is something almost epic in his work.
0	I will make him do it: he will not dare to refuse.
0	You would fancy she was dancing.
0	He shuddered, and felt afraid, and, going back to the couch, lay there, gazing at the picture in sickened horror.
0	[Runs back into the house.]
0	Only true lovers could drink out of this cup, for if false lips touched it, it grew grey and dull and cloudy.
0	But what do you say about the return to Life and Nature?
0	You must sing to me with your breast against a thorn.
0	Uncle Jack seems strangely agitated.
0	And his mother is one of my dearest friends.
0	My lot has been one of public infamy, of long imprisonment, of misery, of ruin, of disgrace, but I am not worthy of it--not yet, at any rate.
0	She made her brother talk of himself, his hopes, his prospects.
0	And yet--" "Just turn your head a little more to the right, Dorian, like a good boy," said the painter, deep in his work and conscious only that a look had come into the lad's face that he had never seen there before.
0	“Why, indeed?” said a Butterfly, who was fluttering about after a sunbeam.
0	You will find a great many, dear, a great many.
0	I would say that he was tainted with foreign ideas on the subject.
0	Do you think, then, that a man who has once committed a murder could possibly do the same crime again?
0	but you don't like being kissed, Jim," she cried.
0	I am his best friend, and I will always watch over him, and see that he is not led into any temptations.
0	In England, Journalism, not, except in a few well-known instances, having been carried to such excesses of brutality, is still a great factor, a really remarkable power.
0	To the wickedness of the Papacy humanity owes much.
0	Compared to what he saw in it of censure or rebuke, how shallow Basil's reproaches about Sibyl Vane had been!--how shallow, and of what little account!
0	Up to the present man has hardly cultivated sympathy at all.
0	The rotting of a corpse in a watery grave was not so fearful.
0	"He is not a gentleman, Mother, and I hate the way he talks to me," said the girl, rising to her feet and going over to the window.
0	We degenerate into hideous puppets, haunted by the memory of the passions of which we were too much afraid, and the exquisite temptations that we had not the courage to yield to.
0	After about a quarter of an hour Hallward stopped painting, looked for a long time at Dorian Gray, and then for a long time at the picture, biting the end of one of his huge brushes and frowning.
0	He will turn from them to such works as make him brood and dream and fancy, to works that possess the subtle quality of suggestion, and seem to tell one that even from them there is an escape into a wider world.
0	[_Rises hastily and takes his arm_.]
0	He was dressed in grey, and his breath was like ice.
0	It was a fatal day when the public discovered that the pen is mightier than the paving-stone, and can be made as offensive as the brickbat.
0	But this is not so.
0	He would have said it.
0	He drew back, and it retreated.
0	For just as the great artists, from Homer and Æschylus, down to Shakespeare and Keats, did not go directly to life for their subject-matter, but sought for it in myth, and legend, and ancient tale, so the critic deals with materials that others have, as it were, purified for him, and to which imaginative form and colour have been already added.
0	We live in an age when men treat art as if it were meant to be a form of autobiography.
0	The conception of making a prose poem out of paint is excellent.
0	Here the imitation, as far as it went, was of course accidental.
0	And one ends by deceiving others.
0	The Grosvenor is really the only place."
0	I should fancy that the real tragedy of the poor is that they can afford nothing but self-denial.
0	I’ll not leave your room till I have searched every corner of it!
0	That is what Fiction means.
0	A man of no importance.
0	Nothing that you could possibly say could be too bad for him.
0	Lieutenant 1840, Captain, Lieutenant-Colonel, Colonel, General 1869, Christian names, Ernest John.
0	“‘Have you mended the hole in the roof yet, little Hans?’ cried the Miller in a cheery voice.
0	Dear Lord Alfred, do join us.
0	Then he took out the key and returned to the room, locking himself in as he did so.
0	You are looking again at my daughter.
0	And then, when you are tired of these flowers of evil, turn to the flowers that grow in the garden of Perdita, and in their dew-drenched chalices cool your fevered brow, and let their loveliness heal and restore your soul; or wake from his forgotten tomb the sweet Syrian, Meleager, and bid the lover of Heliodore make you music, for he too has flowers in his song, red pomegranate blossoms, and irises that smell of myrrh, ringed daffodils and dark blue hyacinths, and marjoram and crinkled ox-eyes.
0	Moderation is a fatal thing, Lady Hunstanton.
0	The mother snatched away by death, the boy left to solitude and the tyranny of an old and loveless man.
0	It was evident that, for that night at any rate, Virginia was lost to them; and it was in a state of the deepest depression that Mr. Otis and the boys walked up to the house, the groom following behind with the two horses and the pony.
0	But then in the Church they don't think.
0	He is looking at something.
0	I will say that I have never seen this wretched thing, that it was never in my possession.
0	That is the one sin for which there is no forgiveness.
0	That would be real dishonour, the first you have ever known.
0	In the jaws of Lucifer we see the man who sold Christ, and in the jaws of Lucifer the men who slew Cæsar.
0	After a few minutes, they all passed downstairs.
0	I have a letter written already.
0	But I wish you wouldn’t look so pleased about it.
0	You have proved it to my dissatisfaction, which is better.
0	The snow lies thick now upon Olympus, and its steep scarped sides are bleak and barren, but once, we fancy, the white feet of the Muses brushed the dew from the anemones in the morning, and at evening came Apollo to sing to the shepherds in the vale.
0	It struck me as being rather dramatic.
0	I beg you to stay."
0	You know we poor artists have to show ourselves in society from time to time, just to remind the public that we are not savages.
0	Yes; it was an interesting background.
0	In fact, as far as I can make out, the poachers are the only people who make anything out of it.
0	If you pretend to be bad, it doesn’t.
0	What did she say about it all?"
0	What a fascinating woman Mrs. Erlynne is!
0	‘With what should I love my love if I gave thee my heart?’ he cried.
0	He is a perfect monster, and would have no hesitation in breakfasting off them.
0	Things are because we see them, and what we see, and how we see it, depends on the Arts that have influenced us.
0	It would make life so much easier.
0	People are either charming or tedious.
0	I didn’t dare to make the smallest repartee, I need hardly tell you.
0	‘When the dwellers in the villages saw us coming, they poisoned the wells and fled to the hill-summits.
0	And here, Ernest, this strange thing happens.
0	His sole aim is to chronicle his own impressions.
0	What is that dreadful girl talking about?
0	[_Crosses and sits on sofa_.]
0	‘Is this true?’ he murmured.
0	You don't know what you are talking about.
0	As they passed the column he looked up at the statue: “Dear me!
0	For a few moments he loitered upon the doorstep, looking round at the silent square, with its blank, close-shuttered windows and its staring blinds.
0	They can’t help it—and although they never talk scandal, they—well, of course—they remark on it to every one.
0	[_Up C._]  So strange Lord Windermere isn’t here.
0	Margaret and I get on charmingly together.
0	You talk as if you had a heart.
0	That will do, Lane, thank you.
0	Some soldiers are leaning over the balcony.
0	I shall only keep you half an hour."
0	Yes; Lord Goring has just told me.
0	I know it is very generous of me, and a great many people would think me extremely foolish for parting with it, but I am not like the rest of the world.
0	It is he who suffers.
0	about a hundred and thirty thousand pounds in the Funds.
0	He could not finish the sentence.
0	Few English plays have such a peculiar history.
0	When we came to the Tower of Apes we set fruits before them, and they did not harm us.
0	It is one of the great romantic tragedies of the age.
0	The second doctrine is this.
0	The members of the Browning Society, like the theologians of the Broad Church Party, or the authors of Mr. Walter Scott’s Great Writers Series, seem to me to spend their time in trying to explain their divinity away.
0	Besides, Robert thinks very highly of Mr. Trafford.
0	He takes the written word, and action, gesture and voice become the media of revelation.
0	'Lead us not into temptation.
0	His fingers were as cold as ice, and his lips burned like fire, but Virginia did not falter, as he led her across the dusky room.
0	"Let us go, Basil," said Lord Henry with a strange tenderness in his voice, and the two young men passed out together.
0	Yet it is a terrible thing to strangle a king.
0	At least, no great poet does.
0	And does my son hate me as you do?
0	But I wish you had left word where you had really gone to.
0	I am not in a mood to-night for silver twilights, or rose-pink dawns.
0	I should be much obliged if you would ask Mr. Bunbury, from me, to be kind enough not to have a relapse on Saturday, for I rely on you to arrange my music for me.
0	He felt that he was on the brink of a horrible danger.
0	Many American ladies on leaving their native land adopt an appearance of chronic ill-health, under the impression that it is a form of European refinement, but Mrs. Otis had never fallen into this error.
0	I never think of it myself.
0	I feel to-night that I have saved you from something that might have been a danger to you, from something that might have made men honour you less than they do.
0	The foreground of our subject is a grassy     sunburnt bank, broken into swells and hollows like waves (a sort of     land-breakers), rendered more uneven by many foot-tripping roots and     stumps of trees stocked untimely by the axe, which are again throwing     out light-green shoots.
0	Damme, sir, it is your duty to get married.
0	Even after the expiration of the three years of public mourning that he had ordained throughout his whole dominions by royal edict, he would never suffer his ministers to speak about any new alliance, and when the Emperor himself sent to him, and offered him the hand of the lovely Archduchess of Bohemia, his niece, in marriage, he bade the ambassadors tell their master that the King of Spain was already wedded to Sorrow, and that though she was but a barren bride he loved her better than Beauty; an answer that cost his crown the rich provinces of the Netherlands, which soon after, at the Emperor’s instigation, revolted against him under the leadership of some fanatics of the Reformed Church.
0	I would give my soul for that!"
0	There was something in him of Balzac’s Lucien de Rubempré.
0	And he set to and ran, so eager was he to get rid of his soul, and a cloud of dust followed him as he sped round the sand of the shore.
0	It makes me too romantic.
0	_He plays with life_, _and is on perfectly good terms with the world_.
0	But how intolerable were the endless claims upon him!
0	The only difference between the saint and the sinner is that every saint has a past, and every sinner has a future.
0	It was the one thing that made the Renaissance great, and gave us Humanism.
0	I have just been telling him what a capital sitter you were, and now you have spoiled everything."
0	"But what about my man at the Orleans?"
0	Don't you like the name.
0	I think it right that you should know that the most dreadful things are being said against you in London."
0	He turned away in horror.
0	Then the Spring came, and all over the country there were little blossoms and little birds.
0	It can lead us away from surroundings whose beauty is dimmed to us by the mist of familiarity, or whose ignoble ugliness and sordid claims are marring the perfection of our development.
0	You don’t look at all well, Lord Augustus.
0	And indeed archæology is only really delightful when transfused into some form of art.
0	The tyranny of the weak over the strong.
0	But Criticism is always moving on, and the critic is always developing.
0	I spoke metaphorically.--My metaphor was drawn from bees.
0	Horrible animals with lizard tails and goggle eyes blinked at her from the carven chimneypiece, and murmured, "Beware!
0	The tyranny that it proposes to exercise over people’s private lives seems to me to be quite extraordinary.
0	The more mechanical people to whom life is a shrewd speculation depending on a careful calculation of ways and means, always know where they are going, and go there.
0	It grovelled on the ground, and, when he looked at it, it watched him with a face drawn with pain.
0	There are only six lines:     "'When a golden girl can win     Prayer from out the lips of sin,     When the barren almond bears,     And a little child gives away its tears,     Then shall all the house be still     And peace come to Canterville.'
0	It is obviously the same person.
0	Besides, if you did make a clean breast of the whole affair, you would never be able to talk morality again.
0	But she would have soon found out that you were absolutely indifferent to her.
0	I am very sorry for you, Robert, very sorry indeed.
0	I remember the whole thing as if it happened yesterday.
0	You must go back to your husband’s house immediately.
0	"Well, sir, you'll be covered with cobwebs if you go into it.
0	[_Hands letters on a salver_.]
0	So he was not afraid.
0	She is like a little princess who wears a yellow veil, and whose feet are of silver.
0	I hope you will always look at me just like that, especially when there are other people present.
0	He crawled, like some wounded thing, into the shadow, and lay there moaning.
0	_Rouge accentuates the natural paleness of her complexion_.
0	A mother’s love is very touching, of course, but it is often curiously selfish.
0	As far as I can see, he is to do nothing but pay bills and compliments.
0	At any rate we do our best to waste the public time, don’t we?
0	But I see dear Dr. Chasuble coming up through the garden.
0	But I dare say the girl was just as much to blame as Lord Illingworth was.—After all, would a really nice girl, a girl with any nice feelings at all, go away from her home with a man to whom she was not married, and live with him as his wife?
0	His lordship told me to ask you, madam, to be kind enough to wait in the drawing-room for him.
0	“I am glad that she has gone,” he said to himself, “she has a decidedly middle-class mind”; and he sank a little deeper still into the mud, and began to think about the loneliness of genius, when suddenly two little boys in white smocks came running down the bank, with a kettle and some faggots.
0	He stopped several times and waited.
0	His death must have been extremely sudden.
0	The screen had not been set back, and a blank space was visible on the wall.
0	The new manner in art, the fresh mode of looking at life, suggested so strangely by the merely visible presence of one who was unconscious of it all; the silent spirit that dwelt in dim woodland, and walked unseen in open field, suddenly showing herself, Dryadlike and not afraid, because in his soul who sought for her there had been wakened that wonderful vision to which alone are wonderful things revealed; the mere shapes and patterns of things becoming, as it were, refined, and gaining a kind of symbolical value, as though they were themselves patterns of some other and more perfect form whose shadow they made real:  how strange it all was!
0	as far as he is concerned, I mean.
0	In his judgments on the great Italian Masters, says De Quincey, ‘there seemed a tone of sincerity and of native sensibility, as in one who spoke for himself, and was not merely a copier from books.’  The highest praise that we can give to him is that he tried to revive style as a conscious tradition.
0	He thoroughly appreciated William Blake.
0	"A great many people don't, but I find him charming.
0	Well, I own a house in Belgrave Square, but it is let by the year to Lady Bloxham.
0	In the case of literature it is different.
0	It was certainly a wonderful work of art, and a wonderful likeness as well.
0	He glanced at his own white taper fingers, shuddering slightly in spite of himself, and passed on, till he came to those lovely stanzas upon Venice:      Sur une gamme chromatique,        Le sein de perles ruisselant,      La Venus de l'Adriatique        Sort de l'eau son corps rose et blanc.
0	Well, it is what is called nowadays a high moral tone, father.
0	It is entirely composed now of beautiful idiots and brilliant lunatics.
0	I suppose it is something in their climate.
0	“‘And how have you been all the winter?’ said the Miller.
0	[_L.C._]  Margaret, you are talking foolishly, recklessly.
0	Hopper is one of Nature’s gentlemen, the worst type of gentleman I know.
0	‘Bare he not upon his neck a chain of amber?
0	I have not yet told him the colour of my frock."
0	But moments such as these were rare.
0	Remember you are to keep Windermere at your club, and don’t let him come back to-night.
0	I have told you too much as it is.
0	And the children, if there are children, in the same way also?
0	What do they talk about?
0	A Nihilist who rejects all authority, because he knows authority to be evil, and welcomes all pain, because through that he realises his personality, is a real Christian.
0	When one is in love one begins by deceiving oneself.
0	Oh, on account of that horrid woman.
0	A half-caste, in a ragged turban and a shabby ulster, grinned a hideous greeting as he thrust a bottle of brandy and two tumblers in front of them.
0	Tell one of the grooms to bring my horse round.
0	You wrote to me as one of your oldest friends, one of your husband’s oldest friends.
0	Go on with your story."
0	"Every effect that one produces gives one an enemy.
0	Particularly when the weather was so charming.
0	"I am so sorry for you," she said, "but my brothers are going back to Eton to-morrow, and then, if you behave yourself, no one will annoy you."
0	But why didn’t you tell me that before?
0	He lashed her across the neck with his crop.
0	It doesn’t do to pay men so much attention.
0	I don't want it to get scratched going upstairs."
0	Nowadays most people die of a sort of creeping common sense, and discover when it is too late that the only things one never regrets are one's mistakes."
0	But good women have such limited views of life, their horizon is so small, their interests are so petty, aren’t they?
0	You have done enough evil in your life.
0	"Still, we have done great things."
0	Yes, that was the secret.
0	It converts the abolition of legal restraint into a form of freedom that will help the full development of personality, and make the love of man and woman more wonderful, more beautiful, and more ennobling.
0	why did you not add you loved me?
0	Music always seems to me to produce that effect.
0	Dorian strolled along by his side.
0	I may have wrecked my own life, but I will not let you wreck yours.
0	He certainly has no secrets from me.
0	The judge on the occasion was Lord Abinger.
0	Robert, how could you have sold yourself for money?
0	All night long he sings, and the cold crystal moon looks down, and the yew-tree spreads out its giant arms over the sleepers."
0	Is he as beautiful as thou art, Jokanaan?
0	Why do they dispute about their religion?
0	However, by taking great care of himself, he recovered, and resolved to make a third attempt to frighten the United States Minister and his family.
0	We have just had tea at Lady Markby’s.
0	When that high spirit, that morning star of evil, fell from heaven, it was as a rebel that he fell.
0	“Of course; I knew I was discussing some interesting subject when I was so rudely interrupted.
0	Every moment of his lonely childhood came back to him as he looked round.
0	There are only two ways by which man can reach it.
0	"Even when he is wrong?"
0	I wish now that I was not going to Australia at all.
0	Music, in which all subject is absorbed in expression and cannot be separated from it, is a complex example, and a flower or a child a simple example, of what I mean; but sorrow is the ultimate type both in life and art.
0	no anodyne can give her sleep!
0	Lord Henry is very wicked, and I sometimes wish that I had been; but you are made to be good--you look so good.
0	Will you excuse me for a moment, Robert?
0	He had mad hungers that grew more ravenous as he fed them.
0	‘Thou hast a human soul,’ she answered.
0	Besides, I am particularly fond of muffins.
0	The characters in these plays talk on the stage exactly as they would talk off it; they have neither aspirations nor aspirates; they are taken directly from life and reproduce its vulgarity down to the smallest detail; they present the gait, manner, costume and accent of real people; they would pass unnoticed in a third-class railway carriage.
0	I see that after all these years you have not changed a bit, Gertrude.
0	Whom seekest thou in this foul palace?
0	He had never seen him like this before.
0	I never had a brother in my life, and I certainly have not the smallest intention of ever having one in the future.
0	Wonder what Gertrude is writing to him about?
0	The true perfection of man lies, not in what man has, but in what man is.
0	It is a chance, just a chance, but I believe in it.
0	My dear father, if we men married the women we deserved, we should have a very bad time of it.
0	Thy voice is wine to me.
0	And when they brought him one, taken in the very act of sin and showed him her sentence written in the law, and asked him what was to be done, he wrote with his finger on the ground as though he did not hear them, and finally, when they pressed him again, looked up and said, 'Let him of you who has never sinned be the first to throw the stone at her.'
0	He appeals to the temper of wonder, and creates that mood in which alone he can be understood.
0	"It is no reason at all for existing, and you know you have been very wicked.
0	Nor in AEschylus nor Dante, those stern masters of tenderness, in Shakespeare, the most purely human of all the great artists, in the whole of Celtic myth and legend, where the loveliness of the world is shown through a mist of tears, and the life of a man is no more than the life of a flower, is there anything that, for sheer simplicity of pathos wedded and made one with sublimity of tragic effect, can be said to equal or even approach the last act of Christ's passion.
0	I don't care what shame comes on you.
0	I hope you don’t think you have exhausted life, Mr. Arbuthnot.
0	But there is nothing romantic about a definite proposal.
0	She seemed to have no personality at all, but simply the possibility of many types.
0	The mere lack of style in the story-teller gives an odd journalistic realism to what he tells us.
0	Yet there are worse things in the world than that.
0	Well, yes, it is—I am bound to say it is.
0	Margaret, you have cut open my bank book.
0	"Yes; you are just like that."
0	‘It may be that thou wilt have need of me.’ ‘What need should I have of thee?’ cried the young Fisherman, ‘but be it as thou wilt,’ and he plunged into the waters and the Tritons blew their horns and the little Mermaid rose up to meet him, and put her arms around his neck and kissed him on the mouth.
0	He asked the white rose, and it made him no answer.
0	“This is a delightful spot,” he said, “we must ask the Hail on a visit.” So the Hail came.
0	And now, tell me about yourself and what you are painting."
0	His own individuality becomes a vital part of the interpretation.
0	le bandeau!’ may be taken as an example of the difference between _la tragédie philosophique_ and the drama of real life; and the introduction for the first time of the word _mouchoir_ at the Théâtre Français was an era in that romantic-realistic movement of which Hugo is the father and M. Zola the _enfant terrible_, just as the classicism of the earlier part of the century was emphasised by Talma’s refusal to play Greek heroes any longer in a powdered periwig—one of the many instances, by the way, of that desire for archæological accuracy in dress which has distinguished the great actors of our age.
0	Please don’t praise other women in our presence.
0	"Old age is dull of hearing."
0	Kiss me again, my love.
0	Misfortunes one can endure—they come from outside, they are accidents.
0	Only once in my life have I known a mother’s feelings.
0	A real passion would ruin him.
0	Certainly, and you well deserve it too.
0	_Drawing-room at Hunstanton_, _after dinner_, _lamps lit_.
0	It seemed to me that all my life had been narrowed to one perfect point of rose-coloured joy.
0	For we can still discern on the King’s robe his favourite badge—the sun issuing from a cloud.
0	I like _The Deemster_, and _The Daughter of Heth_, and _Le Disciple_, and _Mr.
0	At least he would be alone when he looked upon the mask of his shame.
0	Even in Shakespeare we can see the beginning of the end.
0	There is nothing I lack.
0	Was it some dim sense of that ruined grace that had made him so suddenly, and almost without cause, give utterance, in Basil Hallward's studio, to the mad prayer that had so changed his life?
0	Why, even the nightingale herself, who sang so sweetly in the orange groves at night that sometimes the Moon leaned down to listen, was not much to look at after all; and, besides, he had been kind to them, and during that terribly bitter winter, when there were no berries on the trees, and the ground was as hard as iron, and the wolves had come down to the very gates of the city to look for food, he had never once forgotten them, but had always given them crumbs out of his little hunch of black bread, and divided with them whatever poor breakfast he had.
0	There are just four in London, Lady Stutfield.
0	Then he rose from the table, lit a cigarette, and flung himself down on a luxuriously cushioned couch that stood facing the screen.
0	I will give you fifty of my peacocks.
0	"You call yesterday the past?"
0	"My dear Dorian, you have the most curiously boyish moods.
0	Were that machine the property of all, every one would benefit by it.
0	Whatever was his name or race, he certainly was the true founder of social intercourse.
0	The wild birds that roam through the forest have their freedom.
0	"I am waiting, Basil," said the young man in a hard clear voice.
0	Oh, yes, I see it well, and the stars are falling like ripe figs, are they not?
0	But the sorrow with which Art fills us both purifies and initiates, if I may quote once more from the great art critic of the Greeks.
0	The man seemed to take an interminable time over everything.
0	"Well, I can tell you anything that is in an English Blue Book, Harry, although those fellows nowadays write a lot of nonsense.
0	"I hope it is, but I can't help feeling it.
0	“I have a golden bedroom,” he said softly to himself as he looked round, and he prepared to go to sleep; but just as he was putting his head under his wing a large drop of water fell on him.
0	I certainly intend to have.
0	What an exquisite life you have had!
0	Arthur, you don’t realise what I am going through.
0	Cold were the lips, yet he kissed them.
0	A gentleman to see you, ma’am.
0	Her own sister, Mrs. Jekyll, had a most unhappy life; through no fault of her own, I am sorry to say.
0	From the roof of a house a company of women watched us.
0	Of course, I am very fond of Harry.
0	"You really must not say things like that before Dorian, Harry."
0	You are far too young!
0	Please don’t interrupt in the middle of a sentence.
0	‘He is really far too ugly to be allowed to play in any place where we are,’ cried the Tulips.
0	I am athirst for thy beauty; I am hungry for thy body; and neither wine nor fruits can appease my desire.
0	A thin film of ice bordered the flat, reed-grown lake.
0	“He is as beautiful as a weathercock,” remarked one of the Town Councillors who wished to gain a reputation for having artistic tastes; “only not quite so useful,” he added, fearing lest people should think him unpractical, which he really was not.
0	Life’s aim, if it has one, is simply to be always looking for temptations.
0	I hate rudeness and bad manners of every kind, for I am extremely sensitive.
0	Where is he, who in a robe of silver shall one day die in the face of all the people?
0	One exhausts what they have to say in a very short time, and then they become as tedious as one’s relations.
0	_follows_ MRS. ERLYNNE _and_ LORD WINDERMERE _into the ball-room holding bouquet_.]
0	She grumbled at his unpunctuality, as he entered.
0	It is merely a method by which we can multiply our personalities.
0	I’m quite delighted he’s gone!
0	There are moments, psychologists tell us, when the passion for sin, or for what the world calls sin, so dominates a nature that every fibre of the body, as every cell of the brain, seems to be instinct with fearful impulses.
0	It was such love as Michelangelo had known, and Montaigne, and Winckelmann, and Shakespeare himself.
0	When you met Lady Gwendolen, not a breath of scandal had ever touched her.
0	Trunks had to be carried down and mufflers looked for.
0	Merriman, Butler Lane, Manservant Lady Bracknell Hon.
0	And now you have got to pay for it.
0	If Dorian Gray's life were spoiled, no one would be sorrier than yourself.
0	The room was quite empty.
0	Who that moves in the stress and turmoil of actual existence, noisy politician, or brawling social reformer, or poor narrow-minded priest blinded by the sufferings of that unimportant section of the community among whom he has cast his lot, can seriously claim to be able to form a disinterested intellectual judgment about any one thing?
0	The critic occupies the same relation to the work of art that he criticises as the artist does to the visible world of form and colour, or the unseen world of passion and of thought.
0	It is one of Tommy’s days for proposing.
0	If it is discovered, I am lost; and it is sure to be discovered unless you help me."
0	Or would you like hock-and-seltzer?
0	There the Duchess sat down on a fallen pillar, while her husband lay at her feet smoking a cigarette and looking up at her beautiful eyes.
0	It is so wonderful that it seems as if a child could reach it in a summer's day.
0	On ordinary days she was only allowed to play with children of her own rank, so she had always to play alone, but her birthday was an exception, and the King had given orders that she was to invite any of her young friends whom she liked to come and amuse themselves with her.
0	I don't want to be at the mercy of my emotions.
0	But we are going to be christened this afternoon.
0	[Every one looks at Miss Prism.]
0	You don’t suppose that men like Lord Illingworth are to be found every day, do you, mother?
0	Princess, our lives belong to you, but we cannot do what you have asked of us.
0	Adrian Singleton rose up wearily and followed Dorian to the bar.
0	And as we sat and made merry, there entered to us an old man bearing a leathern carpet and a lute that had two horns of amber.
0	But nobody heard him, not even the two little boys, for they were sound asleep.
0	What a state she must be in!
0	American women are wonderfully clever in concealing their parents.
0	She was one of those people who think that, if you say the same thing over and over a great many times, it becomes true in the end.
0	as far as any improvement in his ailment goes.
0	he asked, looking at her across the table.
0	Something may, perhaps, be urged on behalf of the Bar.
0	Its mysteries have all the charm of a flirtation, a woman once told me, and I can quite understand it.
0	It was an extraordinary improvisation.
0	I offered her any sum she wanted.
0	This dignified silence seems to produce an unpleasant effect.
0	‘“If the wine be sweet I will drink it with him, and if it be bitter I will drink it with him also,” was my answer.
0	Fortunately for them, their assumption of authority in these art-matters came to entire grief.
0	He could be made a Titan or a toy.
0	Lord Henry watched him with a subtle sense of pleasure.
0	The difficulty that I should fancy the reviewer feels is the difficulty of sustaining any standard.
0	"She assures me so, Lady Narborough," said Dorian.
0	The hideous hunger for opium began to gnaw at him.
0	What is that to you?
0	Those who have the artistic temperament go into exile with Dante and learn how salt is the bread of others, and how steep their stairs; they catch for a moment the serenity and calm of Goethe, and yet know but too well that Baudelaire cried to God--    'O Seigneur, donnez moi la force et le courage    De contempler mon corps et mon coeur sans degout.'
0	God’s law is only Love.
0	Then he took down the Blue Book from one of the shelves and began to turn over the leaves.
0	and quite as true as any observation in civilised life should be.
0	Not properly shaped, as all other people were, but hunchbacked, and crooked-limbed, with huge lolling head and mane of black hair.
0	In a word, I will not have her dance.
0	It seems that as she was leaving the theatre with her mother, about half-past twelve or so, she said she had forgotten something upstairs.
0	There was no pleasure I did not experience.
0	They made a delightful contrast.
0	There were large green rosettes upon her little pointed shoes.
0	It was of course my soul in its ultimate essence that I had reached.
0	I can, at any rate, merely proceed on the lines of my own development, and, accepting all that has happened to me, make myself worthy of it.
0	I tell you, Harry, I could hardly see this girl for the mist of tears that came across me.
0	Much of the best modern literature springs from the same aim.
0	If a man takes their cloak, they are to give him their coat, just to show that material things are of no importance.
0	Only a few guests who are staying in the house, and whom you must know.
0	It was his chief defect."
0	I believe she is going to lunch there.
0	However, it is no matter now, for it is all over, and I don't think it was very nice of her brothers to starve me to death, though I did kill her."
0	Robert, yesterday afternoon Lord Goring told me that if ever I was in trouble I could come to him for help, as he was our oldest and best friend.
0	Yes: there is no use your tossing your head in that petulant manner.
0	I will come and have tea with you.
0	The King of Ceilan rode through his city with a large ruby in his hand, as the ceremony of his coronation.
0	And forgetting his own sorrow he ran back to the place, and saw there a little Hare caught in a trap that some hunter had set for it.
0	If you ever want me, come to me for my assistance, and you shall have it.
0	But the observation crushed Tommy for ten minutes.
0	And what _has_ she to do with me?
0	"We have carried their burden."
0	The Princess has hidden her face behind her fan!
0	When he reads this, he will.
0	What a pity it was that such beauty was destined to fade!
0	It is his love for you that has made him submit to—oh!
0	"How fearful," he muttered, and a shudder ran through him.
0	To whom, if not to them and their master, do we owe the lovely silver mists that brood over our river, and turn to faint forms of fading grace curved bridge and swaying barge?
0	They call it being large-minded and free from prejudice.
0	My Reginald is quite hopelessly faultless.
0	Disobedience, in the eyes of anyone who has read history, is man’s original virtue.
0	"What is it that one was taught to say in one's boyhood?
0	But don’t you think one can be happy when one is married?
0	They have had my own divorce-case and Alan Campbell's suicide.
0	The old are in life’s lumber-room.
0	He has a fever, and is asking for oranges.
0	There is a good postal service, I suppose?
0	He procured from Amsterdam three emeralds of extraordinary size and richness of colour, and had a turquoise _de la vieille roche_ that was the envy of all the connoisseurs.
0	Sometimes in an archæological novel the use of strange and obsolete terms seems to hide the reality beneath the learning, and I dare say that many of the readers of _Notre Dame de Paris_ have been much puzzled over the meaning of such expressions as _la casaque à mahoitres_, _les voulgiers_, _le gallimard taché d’encre_, _les craaquiniers_, and the like; but with the stage how different it is!
0	She develops purely on her own lines.
0	Oh, don’t say that, Lady Hunstanton.
0	the ideal of my life!
0	I quite agree with you there.
0	The knocking still continued and grew louder.
0	As she went in, she turned round and smiled at me again.
0	Have some bread and butter.
0	He is what he is.
0	She knows nothing of life.
0	I don’t know how the world would get on with such a theory as that, dear Mrs. Allonby.
0	There is not a single degradation of the body which I must not try and make into a spiritualising of the soul.
0	Not to be put of with any old-fashioned theories about life.
0	To start like that is to find a career ready for one—before one—waiting for one.
0	She told me that she had felt an absolutely irresistible impulse to follow the heroine step by step in her strange and fatal progress, and that it was with a feeling of real terror that she had looked forward to the last few chapters of the story.
0	He is dressed in the deepest mourning, with crape hatband and black gloves.]
0	What do you know about my married life?
0	There are no temptations there.
0	He had, as I said before, no scheme for the reconstruction of society.
0	It had made him conscious how unjust, how cruel, he had been to Sibyl Vane.
0	Stupidity he recognises as being one of the permanent characteristics of all European civilisations; so he sees no difference between a London mob of his own day and a Roman mob of pagan days, between a silly watchman in Messina and a silly Justice of the Peace in Windsor.
0	[_Sits down with him at L.
0	Oh, I am not going to mince words for you.
0	and that sort of thing is enormously on the increase.
0	There is hardly a single person in the House of Commons worth painting, though many of them would be the better for a little whitewashing."
0	He was, however, very closely followed, and finally he took refuge in a surgery, the door of which happened to be open, where he explained to a young assistant, who happened to be there, exactly what had occurred.
0	"It is not much to ask of you, Dorian, and it is entirely for your own sake that I am speaking.
0	"I have seen things with my own eyes, sir," she said, "that would make any Christian's hair stand on end, and many and many a night I have not closed my eyes in sleep for the awful things that are done here."
0	The pillars were of green marble, and the pavement of a kind of peach-blossom marble.
0	_She sinks slowly on the ground in shame_.
0	As he read it, his face became ghastly pale and he fell back in his chair.
0	In a bed in the corner of the room her little boy is lying ill.
0	I have no desire to underrate the services of laborious scholars, but I feel that the use Keats made of Lemprière’s Dictionary is of far more value to us than Professor Max Müller’s treatment of the same mythology as a disease of language.
0	We become afraid that we ourselves might be as the leper or as the blind, and that no man would have care of us.
0	He was a marvellous type, too, this lad, whom by so curious a chance he had met in Basil's studio, or could be fashioned into a marvellous type, at any rate.
0	Well, really, I might be her husband already.
0	Till then, I never knew of her existence.
0	To him the Christian ideal is a true thing.
0	‘Then he asked me who was the prophet of God, and I answered him Mohammed.
0	But it appeared to Dorian Gray that the true nature of the senses had never been understood, and that they had remained savage and animal merely because the world had sought to starve them into submission or to kill them by pain, instead of aiming at making them elements of a new spirituality, of which a fine instinct for beauty was to be the dominant characteristic.
0	What is outside of him should be a matter of no importance.
0	He who has this Ring is richer than all the kings of the world.
0	It is a grief from which I have never been able completely to rid myself.
0	I have slipped in blood!
0	You know German, and geology, and things of that kind influence a man very much.
0	Truly, I thought he looked too much at her.
0	The lions lie in wait for the caravans, and leap upon the camels.
0	I have, though," she added, with a sickly leer.
0	She could not communicate her joy.
0	And when you have danced for me, forget not to ask of me whatsoever you wish.
0	I simply want my cigarette case back.
0	Believe me, without wealth you could have succeeded just as well.
0	There will be great storages of force for every city, and for every house if required, and this force man will convert into heat, light, or motion, according to his needs.
0	You don't know what he had made me suffer.
0	12 Conduit Street, Regent Street.
0	What art-criticism have they left us?
0	I have already told you to go.
0	But I still had my children left.
0	When you really want love you will find it waiting for you.
0	The lad hesitated, and looked over at Lord Henry, who was watching them from the tea-table with an amused smile.
0	There is in it a certain element of terror for our own safety.
0	But I must not disturb Egeria and her pupil any longer.
0	For he was not to remain a sailor, or a supercargo, or whatever he was going to be.
0	The pulse of joy that beats in us at twenty becomes sluggish.
0	I am, I usually am!
0	They got up and put on their coats, sipping their coffee standing.
0	Its aim, indeed, was to be experience itself, and not the fruits of experience, sweet or bitter as they might be.
0	It makes people think that one is a wild shot.
0	All that one should know about modern life is where the Duchesses are; anything else is quite demoralising.
0	asked the painter, walking up and down the room and biting his lip.
0	But at dinner he could not eat anything.
0	The clever people never listen, and the stupid people never talk.
0	Then you think we should forgive them?
0	"But don't give me away to him," she whined; "I am afraid of him.
0	He flew into dark lanes, and saw the white faces of starving children looking out listlessly at the black streets.
0	An artist is, of course, not disturbed by it.
0	And I don't care twopence about social possibilities.
0	Yes, for creation limits, while contemplation widens, the vision.
0	As for your past, no one knows anything about it except myself and Gerald.
0	We have got rid of what was bad.
0	Cecily, you will come with us.
0	I find a strange pleasure in saying things to him that I know I shall be sorry for having said.
0	Was there some subtle affinity between the chemical atoms that shaped themselves into form and colour on the canvas and the soul that was within him?
0	In my young days, Miss Worsley, one never met any one in society who worked for their living.
0	The man bowed and went up the walk.
0	She was untruthful, dishonest, an evil influence on every one whose trust or friendship she could win.
0	Who told you where I had gone to?
0	I know that you are fond of Japanese things.
0	He understands it as little as you do—but I see what you want.
0	The proper aim is to try and reconstruct society on such a basis that poverty will be impossible.
0	It is one of the best things I have ever done.
0	I could deny anything if I liked.
0	Believe me, nothing would give me greater pleasure.
0	You knew her before, Arthur, apparently.
0	I missed it when I got back to Claridge’s, and I thought I might possibly have dropped it here.
0	It has been an immense nuisance.
0	They feed the hungry and clothe the beggar.
0	In the left-hand corner was his own name, traced in long letters of bright vermilion.
0	Surely a painted canvas could not alter?
0	Mrs. Arbuthnot doesn’t know anything about the wicked society in which we all live.
0	His chief war was against the Philistines.
0	We break the withered branches from the tree in the grove of the Harpies, and each dull-hued poisonous twig bleeds with red blood before us, and cries aloud with bitter cries.
0	"I will tell you, Harry, but you mustn't be unsympathetic about it.
0	Twenty years of romance make a woman look like a ruin; but twenty years of marriage make her something like a public building.
0	I must certainly bring him here.
0	She was an extraordinarily beautiful girl, Margaret Devereux, and made all the men frantic by running away with a penniless young fellow--a mere nobody, sir, a subaltern in a foot regiment, or something of that kind.
0	Lord Henry, upon the other hand, rather liked him.
0	What was youth at best?
0	Mademoiselle Mars, in the first production of _Hernani_, absolutely refused to call her lover ‘_Mon Lion_!’ unless she was allowed to wear a little fashionable _toque_ then much in vogue on the Boulevards; and many young ladies on our own stage insist to the present day on wearing stiff starched petticoats under Greek dresses, to the entire ruin of all delicacy of line and fold; but these wicked things should not be allowed.
0	And you would take him back!
0	How I detest that woman!
0	I am glad, however, that he made up his mind at the last to some definite course of action, and acted under proper medical advice.
0	That is an important point."
0	Oh, he was quite exploded.
0	I will take very good care you never do.
0	He slipped through, and found himself in a splendid hall, far more splendid, he feared, than the forest, there was so much more gilding everywhere, and even the floor was made of great coloured stones, fitted together into a sort of geometrical pattern.
0	That admirable father of mine really makes a habit of turning up at the wrong moment.
0	[_Goes over to the sofa_.]
0	But it is so late.
0	I only read _The Morning Post_.
0	On and on he went, till he reached the outskirts of the wood, and there he saw an immense multitude of men toiling in the bed of a dried-up river.
0	Why don’t you propose to that pretty Miss Chiltern?
0	Two globe-shaped china dishes were brought in by a page.
0	I should be sorry to be on the same level as an age like this.
0	A smile curved Lord Henry's lips, and he turned round and looked at Dorian.
0	I can’t bear the sight of it now.
0	A cry of pain and indignation broke from him.
0	So she reached out her hand, and drew him near to her and put her dry lips close to his ear.
0	He had dreamy violet eyes, and his hair was like fine gold.
0	And, indeed, it was the hunters who had found him, coming upon him almost by chance as, bare-limbed and pipe in hand, he was following the flock of the poor goatherd who had brought him up, and whose son he had always fancied himself to be.
0	It has been a most interesting afternoon."
0	He sets his helmet on the ground, lest their babe should be frightened.
0	It treats the work of art simply as a starting-point for a new creation.
0	I hope to live long enough and to produce work of such a character that I shall be able at the end of my days to say, 'Yes!
0	[_The butler enters_, _followed by the footman_.
0	James Vane looked into his sister's face with tenderness.
0	I am the only person in the world I should like to know thoroughly; but I don’t see any chance of it just at present.
0	"Basil," cried Dorian Gray, "if Lord Henry Wotton goes, I shall go, too.
0	You are too fond of simple pleasures.
0	Abroad, we are more civilised.
0	Reminds me of Prince Doria’s at Rome.
0	Once or twice he thought of going away.
0	You have nothing to conceal, have you?
0	He must not be allowed to know where the picture was being taken to.
0	Later on, after that terrible scene in this room, I wrote to him telling him that I trusted him, that I had need of him, that I was coming to him for help and advice.
0	He had waited a whole year for his bride, and at last she had arrived.
0	On the wall behind it was hanging the same ragged Flemish tapestry where a faded king and queen were playing chess in a garden, while a company of hawkers rode by, carrying hooded birds on their gauntleted wrists.
0	In those days the artist was free.
0	Yet it will love those who sought to intensify it, and speak often of them.
0	A very good age to be married at.
0	"You are not serious, Dorian?"
0	Well, you need not look at the landscape.
0	When we meet--we do meet occasionally, when we dine out together, or go down to the Duke's--we tell each other the most absurd stories with the most serious faces.
0	I am only going to talk to Lord Caversham in the future, and always under the usual palm tree.
0	It will be complete, and through it each man will attain to his perfection.
0	[_With a look of joy and triumph_.]
0	At Christmas I managed to get hold of a Greek Testament, and every morning, after I had cleaned my cell and polished my tins, I read a little of the Gospels, a dozen verses taken by chance anywhere.
0	It brings us no new element of pleasure.
0	Even if I could do it, it would be profanation for me to play at being in love.
0	He drove off by himself, as had been arranged, and watched the flashing lights of the little brougham in front of him.
0	What name can I sign?
0	He has covered me with insults.
0	It helps one, or should help one, to realise both, and not to be too conceited about either.
0	And not merely did he select fact instead of fancy as the basis of much of his imaginative work, but he always gives to each play the general character, the social atmosphere in a word, of the age in question.
0	Of course, he had a wonderful genius for painting.
0	After a few moments, in her black silk dress, with old-fashioned thread mittens on her wrinkled hands, Mrs.
0	LADY MARKBY                 _Miss Fanny Brough_.
0	But I must say that I think that Brother John's coldness to me is peculiarly painful.
0	For me the world is shrivelled to a palm’s breadth, and where I walk there are thorns.
0	Men always want to be a woman’s first love.
0	It seems to me that the imagination spreads, or should spread, a solitude around it, and works best in silence and in isolation.
0	You are more fortunate than I am.
0	All the next day he sat on the Prince’s shoulder, and told him stories of what he had seen in strange lands.
0	Its catastrophes happen in the wrong way and to the wrong people.
0	No mention at all was made of the supernatural, nor was Sir Simon de Canterville alluded to in any way.
0	You bring the other things."
0	They always end by marrying one.
0	No sherry, thank you, Mr. Chapman.
0	I have lost both my parents.
0	We saw its dangers from the first.
0	He felt strangely calm, and walking over to the window, opened it and stepped out on the balcony.
0	To have a style so gorgeous that it conceals the subject is one of the highest achievements of an important and much admired school of Fleet Street leader-writers, and this school _Janus Weathercock_ may be said to have invented.
0	And I see that there are just as many fools in society as there used to be.
0	You are the most earnest-looking person I ever saw in my life.
0	Just the type of girl I like!
0	Dorian half opened the door.
0	"I should object very strongly, Harry," said Hallward.
0	I swear it to you!
0	An individual who has to make things for the use of others, and with reference to their wants and their wishes, does not work with interest, and consequently cannot put into his work what is best in him.
0	Women represent the triumph of matter over mind, just as men represent the triumph of mind over morals."
0	I hope a girl—Ah, no, I remember it’s a boy!
0	"You would miss them," said Lord Henry.
0	I have a distinct recollection of Lady Chiltern always getting the good conduct prize!
0	You would agree with that, I fancy.
0	But to suffer for one’s own faults—ah!—there is the sting of life.
0	"Only my Christian name, and that I am quite sure she never mentioned to any one.
0	"Even when one has been wounded by it, Harry?"
0	Did you go straight home?"
0	It is an arrow shot into the air.
0	If we had ‘these hard and fast rules,’ we should find life much more simple.
0	There was no name of any kind.
0	We think it very inadvisable.
0	It makes me far too conceited.
0	Examine it carefully before you speak.
0	Thy mother dwells not in this city.’ And another, who held a yellow banner in his hand, said to him, ‘Who is thy mother, and wherefore art thou seeking for her?’ And he answered, ‘My mother is a beggar even as I am, and I have treated her evilly, and I pray ye to suffer me to pass that she may give me her forgiveness, if it be that she tarrieth in this city.’  But they would not, and pricked him with their spears.
0	Do you think it will be a wet afternoon?
0	"You have been on the brink of committing a terrible crime, my man," he said, looking at him sternly.
0	But their soul was not in the subject.
0	[_Putting in a new buttonhole_.]
0	I have a right to know."
0	A firm of the very highest position in their profession.
0	And every morning he called to the Mermaid, and every noon he called to her again, and at night-time he spake her name.
0	She thinks merely of music, and everybody knows that the arts are selfish.
0	"I like him," said Lord Henry.
0	I have a strange longing for the great simple primeval things, such as the sea, to me no less of a mother than the Earth.
0	I was not aware that Mr. Bunbury was interested in social legislation.
0	Write out on a sheet of notepaper what you want and my servant will take a cab and bring the things back to you."
0	How immensely you must amuse them!
0	From time to time the butler filled his glass with champagne.
0	Dorian walked to the door with a look of pain in his face.
0	‘Flee away,’ said his Soul, ‘for ever doth the sea come nigher, and if thou tarriest it will slay thee.
0	His ways are very mysterious.
0	Oh, any name you like--Algernon--for instance .
0	We may not watch it, for it is within us.
0	Or was it her feet?
0	Algernon and Jack pretend to be anxious to shield Cecily and Gwendolen from hearing the details of a terrible public scandal.]
0	We, in our educational system, have burdened the memory with a load of unconnected facts, and laboriously striven to impart our laboriously-acquired knowledge.
0	[_Salomé dances the dance of the seven veils._] Ah!
0	And I am in attack.
0	And the people fell upon their knees in awe, and the nobles sheathed their swords and did homage, and the Bishop’s face grew pale, and his hands trembled.
0	* * * * * And on the morrow the old man, who was indeed the subtlest of the magicians of Libya and had learned his art from one who dwelt in the tombs of the Nile, came in to him and frowned at him, and said, ‘In a wood that is nigh to the gate of this city of Giaours there are three pieces of gold.
0	That at least is my idea about friendship, and I am sure I am right.
0	Into your world evil has never entered.
0	don’t tell me you are such as they are!
0	My business as an artist was with Ariel.
0	And what sort of lives do these people, who pose as being moral, lead themselves?
0	Well, I hear the curate is always prowling about the house.
0	The house is rather lonely without her.
0	The girl died, too, died within a year.
0	They are like the black caverns of Egypt in which the dragons make their lairs.
0	[_Rising and crossing stage to C._]  We are only married two years.
0	The jaded, second-rate Anglo-Indians are in exquisite incongruity with their surroundings.
0	I have never been hard to you.
0	Who he was who first, without ever having gone out to the rude chase, told the wandering cavemen at sunset how he had dragged the Megatherium from the purple darkness of its jasper cave, or slain the Mammoth in single combat and brought back its gilded tusks, we cannot tell, and not one of our modern anthropologists, for all their much-boasted science, has had the ordinary courage to tell us.
0	Try and make him come.
0	Don't talk about horrid subjects.
0	The hold I have over him— LADY WINDERMERE.
0	I may not touch it.
0	Shall we go in to tea?
0	A combination of all three.
0	Find expression for a sorrow, and it will become dear to you.
0	And after a whole dreadful week, during which one has gone about everywhere with one’s husband, just to show how absolutely lonely one was, he may be given a third last parting, in the evening, and then, if his conduct has been quite irreproachable, and one has behaved really badly to him, he should be allowed to admit that he has been entirely in the wrong, and when he has admitted that, it becomes a woman’s duty to forgive, and one can do it all over again from the beginning, with variations.
0	Harry, to whom I talked about it, laughed at me.
0	What Jesus does say is that man reaches his perfection, not through what he has, not even through what he does, but entirely through what he is.
0	Mourn for Ophelia, if you like.
0	I knew she would come round in the end.
0	Yes; that was the man he wanted.
0	The priests in their yellow robes moved silently through the green trees, and on a pavement of black marble stood the rose-red house in which the god had his dwelling.
0	Snare them not for thy pleasure.
0	When I came on to-night, I could not understand how it was that everything had gone from me.
0	I like him so much.
0	I am what I am.
0	Three o'clock struck, and four, and the half-hour rang its double chime, but Dorian Gray did not stir.
0	And I don’t think her happiness would be safe in your hands.
0	I do not believe in miracles.
0	In this artistic perception he was perfectly right.
0	I forgot that I was in London and in the nineteenth century.
0	The debate on the Argentine Canal is to begin at eleven.
0	"He never means anything that he says."
0	The life of the senses was described in the terms of mystical philosophy.
0	He would come to you when he was weary of others; you would have to comfort him.
0	He knew in what strange heavens they were suffering, and what dull hells were teaching them the secret of some new joy.
0	Lord Lytton’s position I shall examine later on; but, as regards the theory that Shakespeare did not busy himself much about the costume-wardrobe of his theatre, anybody who cares to study Shakespeare’s method will see that there is absolutely no dramatist of the French, English, or Athenian stage who relies so much for his illusionist effects on the dress of his actors as Shakespeare does himself.
0	Mr. Otis consequently resumed his great work on the history of the Democratic Party, on which he had been engaged for some years; Mrs. Otis organized a wonderful clam-bake, which amazed the whole county; the boys took to lacrosse euchre, poker, and other American national games, and Virginia rode about the lanes on her pony, accompanied by the young Duke of Cheshire, who had come to spend the last week of his holidays at Canterville Chase.
0	Many a woman has a past, but I am told that she has at least a dozen, and that they all fit.
0	I think they are usually punished for it!
0	The whole history of these arts in Europe is the record of the struggle between Orientalism, with its frank rejection of imitation, its love of artistic convention, its dislike to the actual representation of any object in Nature, and our own imitative spirit.
0	I have the gravest doubts upon the subject.
0	Augustus has been dining with us to-night.
0	The head of a man that is cut from his body is ill to look upon, is it not?
0	And, yet, a feeling of infinite regret came over him, as he thought of her lying at his feet sobbing like a little child.
0	“‘Well, really,’ answered the Miller, ‘as I have given you my wheelbarrow, I don’t think that it is much to ask you for a few flowers.
0	Don’t mar both for him.
0	He would be sure to miss the picture--had no doubt missed it already, while he had been laying the tea-things.
0	I would speak with him.
0	Surely such a utilitarian occupation as the watering of flowers is rather Moulton's duty than yours?
0	For half an hour I stood there in the grey November rain surrounded by a jeering mob.
0	It has been pointed out that one of the results of the extraordinary tyranny of authority is that words are absolutely distorted from their proper and simple meaning, and are used to express the obverse of their right signification.
0	Suffer me to lead you in.
0	‘I gave it to the Infanta this morning myself, as a birthday present, and he has stolen it from her.’  And she called out: ‘Thief, thief, thief!’ at the top of her voice.
0	The injustice of men is great.
0	Then one of them caught sight of him.
0	It is simply the indignation of Tartuffe on being exposed.
0	And I have no hesitation in saying that he did so.
0	He is a man who has seen God.
0	"I can stand brute force, but brute reason is quite unbearable.
0	Upon these journeys of discovery, as he would call them—and, indeed, they were to him real voyages through a marvellous land, he would sometimes be accompanied by the slim, fair-haired Court pages, with their floating mantles, and gay fluttering ribands; but more often he would be alone, feeling through a certain quick instinct, which was almost a divination, that the secrets of art are best learned in secret, and that Beauty, like Wisdom, loves the lonely worshipper.
0	And how inadequately does he do it then, asking us to accept the torn turban of the Moor for the noble rage of Othello, or a dotard in a storm for the wild madness of Lear!
0	They have been his companions.
0	Why don’t you ask me how I am?
0	And now, my dear young friend, if you will allow me to call you so, may I ask if you really meant all that you said to us at lunch?"
0	His voice alone inspires one with absolute credulity.
0	_She it_, _for the moment_, _dreadful to look at_.]
0	You are much too delightful to do that.
0	There is nothing like it.
0	If years ago— LADY WINDERMERE.
0	Get thee hence, for we will not suffer thee to play with us,’ and they drave him out of the garden.
0	He jumped up, drew the screen hastily across the picture, and unlocked the door.
0	"For you I would throw over anybody, Duchess," said Lord Henry with a bow.
0	"You have not spoiled my pleasure in meeting you, Mr. Gray," said Lord Henry, stepping forward and extending his hand.
0	My coming into them has been a mistake—I discovered that last night.
0	In spite of what I hear of her, I must see her at once.
0	Oh, what a very uninteresting correspondence!
0	And so, it is not our own life that we live, but the lives of the dead, and the soul that dwells within us is no single spiritual entity, making us personal and individual, created for our service, and entering into us for our joy.
0	They were extremely practical, and whenever they objected to anything they called it humbug.
0	Pride made me think that.
0	That is because one realises one's soul only by getting rid of all alien passions, all acquired culture, and all external possessions, be they good or evil.
0	One can always recognise them.
0	By making it a rule only to talk to perfectly charming people like yourself.
0	What can I say to him?
0	I don’t know that women are always rewarded for being charming.
0	From the point of view of life, he is a reporter who knows vulgarity better than any one has ever known it.
0	To the present day I can't make out why I did so; and yet if I hadn't--my dear Harry, if I hadn't--I should have missed the greatest romance of my life.
0	I am afraid—if you will excuse me—I must join my wife.
0	"Of your shield, Harry, not of your spear."
0	And there is a great deal of good in Lord Augustus.
0	It is the Greeks who have given us the whole system of art-criticism, and how fine their critical instinct was, may be seen from the fact that the material they criticised with most care was, as I have already said, language.
0	In the centre of the grass-plot was standing a beautiful Rose-tree, and when she saw it she flew over to it, and lit upon a spray.
0	It is the secret of life.
0	he said in a calm indifferent voice.
0	he cried, "and I would have murdered you!"
0	He lives the poetry that he cannot write.
0	Every man must be left quite free to choose his own work.
0	It is difficult for most people to grasp the idea.
0	Mr. Marion Crawford has immolated himself upon the altar of local colour.
0	"She is the one link between us and your short frocks."
0	Certainly there was a great deal to look at in the forest, and when she was tired he would find a soft bank of moss for her, or carry her in his arms, for he was very strong, though he knew that he was not tall.
0	Yes: he knew men and cities well, like the old Greek.
0	He was so damp with crying that he could not go off at all.
0	There is really no comparison between them.
0	Oh, but it is not Mr. Ernest Worthing who is my guardian.
0	He saw that love was the first secret of the world for which the wise men had been looking, and that it was only through love that one could approach either the heart of the leper or the feet of God.
0	I am going to send you down with Mary Farquhar.
0	But I hear they let them in now by examination.
0	I have often spoken to the poorer classes on the subject.
0	and that sweet Lady Agatha!
0	But we won't discuss literature.
0	That I will not do.
0	What if Alan Campbell should be out of England?
0	You have made him so.
0	He hesitated for a moment, then he turned back and took it from the table.
0	The waving of crooked, false-jewelled fingers gave grotesqueness to the words.
0	Just let me see your card.
0	The next day the Swallow flew down to the harbour.
0	The prayer of your pride has been answered.
0	Peradventure on account of it a misfortune will come.
0	Like all poetical natures he loved ignorant people.
0	White as the surf it was, and like a flower it tossed on the waves.
0	I wish that I had ever had such an experience.
0	Something has happened to you, Dorian.
0	We live, as I hope you know, Mr. Worthing, in an age of ideals.
0	But you should not say the greatest romance of your life.
0	"Then commit them over again," he said gravely.
0	You have merely to go to bed and blow out the candle.
0	Without it we would become like our neighbours.
0	The motley of the Fool, the scarlet of the Cardinal, and the French lilies broidered on the English coats, are all made occasion for jest or taunt in the dialogue.
0	They give up to their sons in everything.
0	I am just off to rehearsal.
0	It is an instrument on which one plays, that is all.
0	It's a sort of thing that runs in families.
0	It makes me shudder when I hear it.
0	Fresh natural flowers, books that don’t shock one, pictures that one can look at without blushing.
0	I wish that at the same time she would give you a miniature she kisses every night before she prays—It’s the miniature of a young innocent-looking girl with beautiful _dark_ hair.
0	A bitter cold wind swept round them, and she felt something pulling at her dress.
0	"I swear it," came in hoarse echo from her flat mouth.
0	Let us go up to the drawing-room.
0	He loved to kneel down on the cold marble pavement and watch the priest, in his stiff flowered dalmatic, slowly and with white hands moving aside the veil of the tabernacle, or raising aloft the jewelled, lantern-shaped monstrance with that pallid wafer that at times, one would fain think, is indeed the "_panis caelestis_," the bread of angels, or, robed in the garments of the Passion of Christ, breaking the Host into the chalice and smiting his breast for his sins.
0	This woman has purity and innocence.
0	We crossed it on rafts of wood with great bladders of blown hide.
0	And the young King looked at them, and they were beautiful.
0	I should like to, Miss Mabel, but I am afraid I am .
0	"I have not the slightest idea.
0	Then, and then only, does it come into existence.
0	[_Putting his hand on_ GERALD’S _shoulder_.]
0	It is some of your nonsense, Cecil.
0	I am coming to you.’ [_A look of triumph comes over her face_.
0	Why on earth don't you go up and change?
0	The Pope may be cultivated.
0	His whole married life, with its fierce, fiery-coloured joys and the terrible agony of its sudden ending, seemed to come back to him to-day as he watched the Infanta playing on the terrace.
0	"For the most trivial things, Mr. Gray, I assure you.
0	I insist on your discussing this matter with me.
0	That seems strange to me.
0	[_With a gesture of despair_.]
0	During the three terrible hours that the play had lasted, he had lived centuries of pain, aeon upon aeon of torture.
0	Mrs. Cheveley may have changed since then.
0	They fought for a woman."
0	"I don't believe it is my picture."
0	The man fell sprawling on the floor, and when he rose up his teeth chattered with terror and he hid himself behind the couch.
0	You may realise it when I say that had I been released last May, as I tried to be, I would have left this place loathing it and every official in it with a bitterness of hatred that would have poisoned my life.
0	Well, Hetty was not one of our own class, of course.
0	Lady Chiltern not down yet?
0	He showeth Himself at all times and in everything.
0	The mere suggestion is ridiculous.
0	I left the table as soon as I had my second cup of tea, I need hardly say.
0	It is not every son who gets such an offer, Mrs. Arbuthnot.
0	Agatha is looking forward so much to your ball to-night, dear Margaret.
0	What did it matter what happened to the coloured image on the canvas?
0	If ever I get married, I'll certainly try to forget the fact.
0	‘The kings of each city levied tolls on us, but would not suffer us to enter their gates.
0	It is like the moon, and lives for ever.
0	The lamplight struggled out through the fog, and Hallward looked at his watch.
0	Now, remember my advice to you—start at once with Lord Illingworth.
0	They are as a priest whose soul is not yet born.
0	I am nothing of the kind.
0	They looked at each other, as they walked away, and sneered.
0	'Have a box, my Lord?'
0	If you meet at dinner a man who has spent his life in educating himself—a rare type in our time, I admit, but still one occasionally to be met with—you rise from table richer, and conscious that a high ideal has for a moment touched and sanctified your days.
0	For the moment I am your enemy.
0	I will kiss it now.
0	"You said to me that Sibyl Vane represented to you all the heroines of romance--that she was Desdemona one night, and Ophelia the other; that if she died as Juliet, she came to life as Imogen."
0	Beautiful women never have time.
0	My poor brother Ernest to carried off suddenly, in Paris, by a severe chill.
0	“You have talked the whole time yourself.
0	We traverse the marshes of the Styx, and Argenti swims to the boat through the slimy waves.
0	The men are all dowdies and the women are all dandies, aren’t they?
0	‘I would send my soul away from me,’ answered the young Fisherman.
0	There is neither society here, nor solitude.
0	It is an odd thing, but every one who disappears is said to be seen at San Francisco.
0	Their work stands in no intellectual relation to their age.
0	Won't she feel his loss a good deal?
0	If, on the other hand, we regard Nature as the collection of phenomena external to man, people only discover in her what they bring to her.
0	In her dealings with man, destiny never closed her accounts.
0	But the children said that they did not know where he lived, and had never seen him before; and the Giant felt very sad.
0	[Algernon, from the other room, strikes up the Wedding March.
0	A chance word I heard in that damned den set me on the wrong track."
0	through the painted windows came the sunlight streaming upon him, and the sun-beams wove round him a tissued robe that was fairer than the robe that had been fashioned for his pleasure.
0	Pray excuse me, Lady Bracknell, for interrupting you again, but it is only fair to tell you that according to the terms of her grandfather's will Miss Cardew does not come legally of age till she is thirty-five.
0	As for the lives of one's neighbours, if one wishes to be a prig or a Puritan, one can flaunt one's moral views about them, but they are not one's concern.
0	All that it really demonstrated was that our future would be the same as our past, and that the sin we had done once, and with loathing, we would do many times, and with joy.
0	I dare say I lost it at the Opera, before we came on here.
0	"I don't think I shall send it anywhere," he answered, tossing his head back in that odd way that used to make his friends laugh at him at Oxford.
0	to ask you to do something for me.
0	It puts one almost on a level with the commercial classes, doesn’t it?
0	Browning might have given us a Hamlet who would have realised his mission by thought.
0	I _must_ speak to you.
0	Yet did its beauty profit him little, for wherever he went harsh briars and thorns shot up from the ground and encompassed him, and evil nettles stung him, and the thistle pierced him with her daggers, so that he was in sore distress.
0	Shortly after Mr. Stevenson published his curious psychological story of transformation, a friend of mine, called Mr. Hyde, was in the north of London, and being anxious to get to a railway station, took what he thought would be a short cut, lost his way, and found himself in a network of mean, evil-looking streets.
0	Garden at the Manor House.
0	For the future a more trivial buttonhole, Phipps, on Thursday evenings.
0	And he reached out his hand and touched the sword, and when he touched it the merchant started and awoke, and leaping up seized himself the sword and cried to the young Fisherman, ‘Dost thou return evil for good, and pay with the shedding of blood for the kindness that I have shown thee?’ And his Soul said to the young Fisherman, ‘Strike him,’ and he struck him so that he swooned and he seized then the nine purses of gold, and fled hastily through the garden of pomegranates, and set his face to the star that is the star of morning.
0	"You had better go home and put that pistol away, or you may get into trouble," said Dorian, turning on his heel and going slowly down the street.
0	That is nothing to you, dear boy.
0	It is better not to be different from one's fellows.
0	Well, that is very natural, Caroline, is it not?
0	To note the curious hard logic of passion, and the emotional coloured life of the intellect--to observe where they met, and where they separated, at what point they were in unison, and at what point they were at discord--there was a delight in that!
0	‘I pray thee buy it of me, for I am weary of it.
0	"It is simply because she remembers you when you were a little girl, Lady Narborough," said Lord Henry.
0	His face was so beautiful in the moonlight that the little Swallow was filled with pity.
0	He offered an extravagant price.
0	When I look at a landscape I cannot help seeing all its defects.
0	Individualism accepts this and makes it fine.
0	The three you wrote me after I had broken off the engagement are so beautiful, and so badly spelled, that even now I can hardly read them without crying a little.
0	And you do not seem to realise, dear Doctor, that by persistently remaining single, a man converts himself into a permanent public temptation.
0	Is he in the house now?
0	I occupy a cell with a bricklayer and a sweep, but they never offer me the broom!’  When a friend reproached him with the murder of Helen Abercrombie he shrugged his shoulders and said, ‘Yes; it was a dreadful thing to do, but she had very thick ankles.’ From Newgate he was brought to the hulks at Portsmouth, and sent from there in the _Susan_ to Van Diemen’s Land along with three hundred other convicts.
0	But behind sorrow there is always sorrow.
0	That woman who has just gone out, Mrs. Cheveley, as she calls herself now.
0	It is only by the cultivation of the habit of intellectual criticism that we shall be able to rise superior to race-prejudices.
0	Certainly he had loved her madly, and to the ruin, many thought, of his country, then at war with England for the possession of the empire of the New World.
0	Gerald, there was a girl once, she was very young, she was little over eighteen at the time.
0	"The world goes to the altar of its own accord," was the answer.
0	It would kill her love for me.
0	There is famine in the walled cities of Egypt, and the locusts have come up from the desert.
0	After the banquet there was to be a Ball.
0	I am quite ready to admit that I was wrong in what I said about the Greeks.
0	He did not hate the Winter now, for he knew that it was merely the Spring asleep, and that the flowers were resting.
0	When Lord Henry entered the room, he found his uncle sitting in a rough shooting-coat, smoking a cheroot and grumbling over _The Times_.
0	I am very sorry, but it is not my day.
0	I was brutal to her this evening.
0	He has a very strong chin, a square chin.
0	We were at school together, Mrs. Cheveley.
0	The walls were hung with a many-figured green arras of needle-wrought tapestry representing a hunt, the work of some Flemish artists who had spent more than seven years in its composition.
0	"No, I don't mean that.
0	His hair and beard were dyed with rose-leaves, and his cheeks were powdered with a fine gold dust.
0	Dear mother, I knew you wouldn’t stand in my way.
0	And, though it sounds absurd to say so, he is really not so ugly after all, provided, of course, that one shuts one’s eyes, and does not look at him.’  The Lizards were extremely philosophical by nature, and often sat thinking for hours and hours together, when there was nothing else to do, or when the weather was too rainy for them to go out.
0	"But I can finish your idyll for you.
0	Sir John’s temper since he has taken seriously to politics has become quite unbearable.
0	It takes the cumbersome mass of creative work, and distils it into a finer essence.
0	It was on the ninth of November, the eve of his own thirty-eighth birthday, as he often remembered afterwards.
0	His hair is brown and crisp, and his lips are red as a pomegranate, and he has large and dreamy eyes.
0	If there was less sympathy in the world there would be less trouble in the world.
0	Sometimes, when I listen to the overture to _Tannhäuser_, I seem indeed to see that comely knight treading delicately on the flower-strewn grass, and to hear the voice of Venus calling to him from the caverned hill.
0	Don't sneer at it, Harry, any more--at least not before me.
0	Just as on the flowerless carpets of Persia, tulip and rose blossom indeed and are lovely to look on, though they are not reproduced in visible shape or line; just as the pearl and purple of the sea-shell is echoed in the church of St. Mark at Venice; just as the vaulted ceiling of the wondrous chapel at Ravenna is made gorgeous by the gold and green and sapphire of the peacock’s tail, though the birds of Juno fly not across it; so the critic reproduces the work that he criticises in a mode that is never imitative, and part of whose charm may really consist in the rejection of resemblance, and shows us in this way not merely the meaning but also the mystery of Beauty, and, by transforming each art into literature, solves once for all the problem of Art’s unity.
0	Of course, now and then things linger.
0	With all your pomp and wealth and art you don’t know how to live—you don’t even know that.
0	I should make you a very bad husband.
0	She was very deft with her needle once, quite a Dorcas.
0	A look of pain came across him, and he flung the rich pall over the picture.
0	Come with me, my son, for I have need of thy love.’ But the Star-Child stirred not from his place, but shut the doors of his heart against her, nor was there any sound heard save the sound of the woman weeping for pain.
0	There was a woman who was taken in adultery.
0	But who is this charming person you have been kind enough to bring to us?
0	The sheep and goats leave their pasture;     and oreads, ‘who love to scale the most inaccessible tops of all     uprightest rocks,’ hurry down from the song of their wind-courting     pines; while the dryads bend from the branches of the meeting trees,     and the rivers moan for white Procris, ‘with many-sobbing streams,’                    Filling the far-seen ocean with a voice.
0	Don’t understand what you mean.
0	But the future was inevitable.
0	It is an error of taste.
0	The worship of pain has far more often dominated the world.
0	Never has he spoken word against me, this prophet, save that I sinned in taking to wife the wife of my brother.
0	[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _comes back_, _with a look of scorn and anger on his face_.]
0	Well, sir, I suppose I have a right to sneeze when I choose?
0	"I really cannot understand it."
0	I have no secrets from you."
0	I am glad to say that I have never seen a spade.
0	He is looking at some one.
0	I had done nothing at all.
0	The whole theory of modern education is radically unsound.
0	"People are very fond of giving away what they need most themselves.
0	You want to talk to me about Mrs. Cheveley?
0	Daughter of Sodom, come not near me!
0	This, however, is a foolish habit, and merely shows that the moral instinct can be brought to such a pitch of perfection that it will make its appearance wherever it is not required.
0	Are you very pleased about it?
0	"I was brutal, Harry--perfectly brutal.
0	don’t kill my love for you, don’t kill that!
0	M. Guy de Maupassant, with his keen mordant irony and his hard vivid style, strips life of the few poor rags that still cover her, and shows us foul sore and festering wound.
0	Thirty- five is a very attractive age.
0	At her word the frost lays its silver finger on the burning mouth of June, and the winged lions creep out from the hollows of the Lydian hills.
0	I asked you a question, did I not?
0	He felt that the eyes of Dorian Gray were fixed on him, and the consciousness that amongst his audience there was one whose temperament he wished to fascinate seemed to give his wit keenness and to lend colour to his imagination.
0	“How I would like to see him!” he used to say.
0	For twenty years I have lied to the world.
0	I have heard nothing about it.
0	Scientifically speaking, the basis of life—the energy of life, as Aristotle would call it—is simply the desire for expression, and Art is always presenting various forms through which this expression can be attained.
0	In the seventh chapter he tells how, crowned with laurel, lest lightning might strike him, he had sat, as Tiberius, in a garden at Capri, reading the shameful books of Elephantis, while dwarfs and peacocks strutted round him and the flute-player mocked the swinger of the censer; and, as Caligula, had caroused with the green-shirted jockeys in their stables and supped in an ivory manger with a jewel-frontleted horse; and, as Domitian, had wandered through a corridor lined with marble mirrors, looking round with haggard eyes for the reflection of the dagger that was to end his days, and sick with that ennui, that terrible _taedium vitae_, that comes on those to whom life denies nothing; and had peered through a clear emerald at the red shambles of the circus and then, in a litter of pearl and purple drawn by silver-shod mules, been carried through the Street of Pomegranates to a House of Gold and heard men cry on Nero Caesar as he passed by; and, as Elagabalus, had painted his face with colours, and plied the distaff among the women, and brought the Moon from Carthage and given her in mystic marriage to the Sun.
0	You have chattered enough about corruption.
0	It is extremely characteristic of his style—     Darkness—sooty, portentous darkness—shrouds the whole scene: only     above the accursed wood, as if through a horrid rift in the murky     ceiling, a rainy deluge—‘sleety-flaw, discoloured water’—streams down     amain, spreading a grisly spectral light, even more horrible than     that palpable night.
0	she goes everywhere there, and has such pleasant scandals about all her friends.
0	His meeting with Adrian Singleton had strangely moved him, and he wondered if the ruin of that young life was really to be laid at his door, as Basil Hallward had said to him with such infamy of insult.
0	[_Placing his hand on his white waistcoat_.]
0	A cold mist followed her, and the water-snakes ran by her side.
0	After some time she became silent.
0	The sum Baron Arnheim gave me I have distributed twice over in public charities since then.
0	Lady Narborough kept scolding him for what she called "an insult to poor Adolphe, who invented the _menu_ specially for you," and now and then Lord Henry looked across at him, wondering at his silence and abstracted manner.
0	"I think it is most unkind of her, my dear," she whispered.
0	You will marry me, won't you?
0	The hyacinth-like curls grew crisp beneath his graver.
0	Do you mean the fashion, or the side?
0	But he spake sternly to them again, and said: ‘Take these things away, and hide them from me.
0	Well, sir, what are you doing here?
0	What a man really has, is what is in him.
0	[Gwendolen and Jack sit down together in the corner.]
0	It is Criticism, again, that, by concentration, makes culture possible.
0	One evening she is Rosalind, and the next evening she is Imogen.
0	Get thee gone to those who need thee, and leave me my servants.’ ‘Nay,’ answered Death, ‘but till thou hast given me a grain of corn I will not go.’ ‘I will not give thee anything,’ said Avarice.
0	Sometimes you speak so fast that I miss them.
0	We can see the dawn through Shelley’s eyes, and when we wander with Endymion the Moon grows amorous of our youth.
0	You have come here to sell me Robert Chiltern’s letter, haven’t you?
0	And he who is in a state of rebellion cannot receive grace, to use the phrase of which the Church is so fond--so rightly fond, I dare say--for in life as in art the mood of rebellion closes up the channels of the soul, and shuts out the airs of heaven.
0	dear Mrs. Arbuthnot, do come and join us.
0	It was not conscience that made me do so:  it was a sort of cowardice.
0	Most personalities have been obliged to be rebels.
0	Algy, I wish to goodness you would go.
0	Where _do_ you get your gowns?
0	His courtiers had all taken their leave of him, bowing their heads to the ground, according to the ceremonious usage of the day, and had retired to the Great Hall of the Palace, to receive a few last lessons from the Professor of Etiquette; there being some of them who had still quite natural manners, which in a courtier is, I need hardly say, a very grave offence.
0	The house-party consisted of twelve people, and there were more expected to arrive on the next day.
0	If I had, I know what I would make him do.
0	It would not look well to go on."
0	Solicitors are a very respectable class, and in the country often dine with the best families."
0	New prodigies await them there.
0	You shall have those laws exercised to the full.
0	And don’t fall into any temptations while I am away.
0	Mediocrity weighing mediocrity in the balance, and incompetence applauding its brother—that is the spectacle which the artistic activity of England affords us from time to time.
0	The only serious form of intellect I know is the British intellect.
0	[Rising and going to her.]
0	No one in our day has had such a brilliant success.
0	Where does she come from?
0	When all that is settled, I shall take a West End theatre and bring her out properly.
0	Renan in his _Vie de Jesus_--that gracious fifth gospel, the gospel according to St. Thomas, one might call it--says somewhere that Christ's great achievement was that he made himself as much loved after his death as he had been during his lifetime.
0	Tell me all that happened.
0	And what an utter intellectual stagnation it reveals!
0	There be some who say that this man is the prophet Elias..
0	The Saviour of the world.
0	[_Crosses to sofa and sits with_ LADY WINDERMERE.]
0	Even the work of Mr. Pater, who is, on the whole, the most perfect master of English prose now creating amongst us, is often far more like a piece of mosaic than a passage in music, and seems, here and there, to lack the true rhythmical life of words and the fine freedom and richness of effect that such rhythmical life produces.
0	Windermere must be got out of the house; that is absolutely necessary.
0	cried Hallward at last, stung a little by the lad's silence, not understanding what it meant.
0	You hear how she answers me, this daughter of yours?
0	I will have absolutely nothing to do with it.
0	Under Socialism all this will, of course, be altered.
0	We can read the plays and the poems.
0	"Pleasanter for you, I am afraid," murmured Hallward regretfully.
0	I know how people chatter in England.
0	So you really refuse to marry me?
0	"I wish it were stopped for ever, Harry," he answered bitterly.
0	Her clever tongue gets on one's nerves.
0	Set me under the lamp and look at my face!"
0	No country produces such badly-written fiction, such tedious, common work in the novel form, such silly, vulgar plays as England.
0	"Really, our girls have no chance nowadays.
0	[_Turning round_, _and looking at his son beneath his bushy eyebrows_.]
0	But, look here, dear boy.
0	"I don't feel that, Lord Henry."
0	I am delighted to be of any service to you.
0	Yesterday it was Realism that charmed one.
0	All influence is immoral--immoral from the scientific point of view."
0	You have a great future before you, a great future.
0	It is hitting below the intellect."
0	He sees all the lovely influences of life as modes of light: the imagination itself is the world of light.
0	I will give thee the mantle of the high priest.
0	When the moon is full I shall be with thee, and we will dance together on the grass.’ ‘But wilt thou swear to me to tell me how I may send my soul from me?’ he made question.
0	For she sang of the Sea-folk who drive their flocks from cave to cave, and carry the little calves on their shoulders; of the Tritons who have long green beards, and hairy breasts, and blow through twisted conchs when the King passes by; of the palace of the King which is all of amber, with a roof of clear emerald, and a pavement of bright pearl; and of the gardens of the sea where the great filigrane fans of coral wave all day long, and the fish dart about like silver birds, and the anemones cling to the rocks, and the pinks bourgeon in the ribbed yellow sand.
0	What can you have to say to me to-day, George Harford?
0	Why should he trouble about Sibyl Vane?
0	For the past is what man should not have been.
0	Somewhere in the Euston Road, isn't it?
0	I want to be better.
0	It is like the body of a leper.
0	Suddenly from a lumpy tussock of old grass some twenty yards in front of them, with black-tipped ears erect and long hinder limbs throwing it forward, started a hare.
0	[_Rushes to the door of the room_.]
0	The fact is that I find this place rather tedious.
0	You remember, we are having tableaux, don’t you?
0	Six weeks later certain private documents passed through my hands.
0	But what construction could she put on it?
0	She has hawk-faced gods that worship her, and the centaurs gallop at her side.’ CYRIL.
0	and the sun is becoming black like sackcloth of hair, and the kings of the earth are afraid.
0	I am afraid, Caroline, that dear Lord Illingworth doesn’t value the moral qualities in women as much as he should.
0	I delight in men over seventy.
0	They are rough and common, and they give themselves the airs of noble lords.
0	And now—oh, when I think that I made of a man like you my ideal!
0	An oath broke from his lips.
0	There was a horrible fascination in them all.
0	How little he knew of the true reason!
0	Augustus—you know my disreputable brother—such a trial to us all—well, Augustus is completely infatuated about her.
0	To admire them is a distinct sign of provincialism of temperament.
0	You are sure a severe chill isn't hereditary, or anything of that kind?
0	‘His dancing was funny,’ said the Infanta; ‘but his acting is funnier still.
0	It belongs to Nature, not to me.
0	Just the sort of speech I like.
0	How lacking it is in any element of intellectual growth!
0	Hardly as much, I dare say."
0	Once they sank into a deep drift, and came out as white as millers are, when the stones are grinding; and once they slipped on the hard smooth ice where the marsh-water was frozen, and their faggots fell out of their bundles, and they had to pick them up and bind them together again; and once they thought that they had lost their way, and a great terror seized on them, for they knew that the Snow is cruel to those who sleep in her arms.
0	It is because I like you so much that I want to have you with me.
0	Life, Lady Stutfield, is simply a _mauvais quart d’heure_ made up of exquisite moments.
0	Upon the other hand they go on.
0	It shall not be so.
0	I have got to telegraph to Vienna to-night.
0	As a natural result the State must give up all idea of government.
0	It is very vulgar to talk like a dentist when one isn't a dentist.
0	"Do you think he will really marry this fascinating young person?"
0	Yes, that is all very well; but I am afraid Aunt Augusta won't quite approve of your being here.
0	Really, this horrid House of Commons quite ruins our husbands for us.
0	On the ivory of her breast a queen has worn it.
0	"Take this round to 152, Hertford Street, Francis, and if Mr. Campbell is out of town, get his address."
0	“Just look at those yellow tulips.
0	You don’t realise what my past has been in suffering and in shame.
0	receiving the homage of the Netherlands occupied the centre of the other wall.
0	I must see Dorian Gray."
0	said the lad, throwing off his evening cape with its satin-lined wings and shaking each of his friends by the hand in turn.
0	Hester, Hester, what shall I do?
0	His admiration for Wordsworth was sincere and profound.
0	Dulness is always an irresistible temptation for brilliancy, and stupidity is the permanent _Bestia Trionfans_ that calls wisdom from its cave.
0	[_Seated L.C._]  Oh, you mustn’t think it is going to be a ball, Duchess.
0	I didn’t quite catch what his lordship said.
0	He is going to faint."
0	It is said that all martyrdoms seemed mean to the looker on.
0	Lord Henry took up his hat and gloves.
0	[Enter Merriman with a card on a salver.]
0	Each little thing that we do passes into the great machine of life which may grind our virtues to powder and make them worthless, or transform our sins into elements of a new civilisation, more marvellous and more splendid than any that has gone before.
0	Did you go down and see the girl's mother?
0	I have asked Lord Grotrian."
0	Basil had said things to him that were unbearable, and that he had yet borne with patience.
0	You’ll carry it so gracefully.
0	Gertrude.’  [_Puts down the letter with a puzzled look_.
0	She spiritualizes them, and one feels that they are of the same flesh and blood as one's self."
0	Lady Chiltern knows nothing of the kind of life to which you are alluding.
0	You have sworn it, Tetrarch.
0	I had buried my romance in a bed of asphodel.
0	Public honour has been the result.
0	Tell me the whole thing.
0	We think in eternity, but we move slowly through time; and how slowly time goes with us who lie in prison I need not tell again, nor of the weariness and despair that creep back into one's cell, and into the cell of one's heart, with such strange insistence that one has, as it were, to garnish and sweep one's house for their coming, as for an unwelcome guest, or a bitter master, or a slave whose slave it is one's chance or choice to be.
0	I am a tainted thing.
0	_You_ have not congratulated me yet, Miss Worsley.
0	Now this wood was very fair to look at from without, and seemed full of singing birds and of sweet-scented flowers, and the Star-Child entered it gladly.
0	We were quite close, almost touching.
0	In no case does it reproduce its age.
0	I know it—but I tell you that your husband loves you—that you may never meet with such love again in your whole life—that such love you will never meet—and that if you throw it away, the day may come when you will starve for love and it will not be given to you, beg for love and it will be denied you—Oh!
0	They are always like that.
0	The clouds are seeking to clothe her nakedness, but she will not let them.
0	There is no essential incongruity between crime and culture.
0	And as the gods are strange, and punish us for what is good and humane in us as much as for what is evil and perverse, I must accept the fact that one is punished for the good as well as for the evil that one does.
0	"Good-bye, my son," she answered with a bow of strained stateliness.
0	Nevertheless, I do not think he will come.
0	But you don’t tell me what to do now!
0	You mustn't believe a word that he says."
0	I didn’t know you had heard it.
0	Let us go within.... You have nothing to do here.
0	Softer than sleep-laden poppy petals were her lips, softer than violets and as scented.
0	The brain had its own food on which it battened, and the imagination, made grotesque by terror, twisted and distorted as a living thing by pain, danced like some foul puppet on a stand and grinned through moving masks.
0	"But do you approve of it, Harry?"
0	Nor could anything be less impressive than the unfortunate hero gravely heralding a dawn that rose long ago, and so completely missing its true significance that he proposes to carry on the business of the old firm under the new name.
0	Lord Illingworth has just offered to make me his secretary.
0	‘Hector that sweet knight is dead,’ and Lucian tells us how in the dim under-world Menippus saw the bleaching skull of Helen, and marvelled that it was for so grim a favour that all those horned ships were launched, those beautiful mailed men laid low, those towered cities brought to dust.
0	I was thinking of something else."
0	As for Sibyl, I do not know at present whether her attachment is serious or not.
0	It is impossible for him to do so.
0	Peacock blue, of course, has been employed on the stage, notably at the Lyceum, with great advantage; but all attempts at a good light blue, or good dark blue, which I have seen have been failures.
0	Even now, in some places in the world, the message of Christ is necessary.
0	You’ll stop to luncheon, Lord Caversham, won’t you?
0	You had made me understand what love really is.
0	I will know who it is to whom I have told my secret and my shame.
0	I shall see you both no doubt at Evensong?
0	You can do it if you choose.
0	You have a cleverness quite of your own.
0	I fear he is right; I am sure that he is right.
0	I pray thee dance for me.
0	When he entered the somewhat sombre hall, the butler told him that they had gone in to lunch.
0	She’s going to explain that to-morrow.
0	You might wait for us to do that!
0	_Then she turns_, _and exit C. followed LADY WINDERMERE.
0	He is probably a member of the aristocracy."
0	He was amazed at the sudden impression that his words had produced, and, remembering a book that he had read when he was sixteen, a book which had revealed to him much that he had not known before, he wondered whether Dorian Gray was passing through a similar experience.
0	Lord Henry looked in the direction in which the trembling gloved hand was pointing.
0	The public are to him non-existent.
0	Already the Earth pants thick and fast!
0	But birds and lizards have no sense of repose, and indeed birds have not even a permanent address.
0	And so, indeed, I went out, and so I lived.
0	And I saw you with him the other night at the opera."
0	My first impressions of people are invariably right.
0	But Lady Windermere has that uncommon thing called common sense.
0	But seriously, what do you say to £2000?
0	It may really be so.
0	But while to propose to be a better man is a piece of unscientific cant, to have become a deeper man is the privilege of those who have suffered.
0	How dare you threaten him or me?
0	And I have to get it all out of myself.
0	Then the excitement is all over.
0	And just as artistic creation implies the working of the critical faculty, and, indeed, without it cannot be said to exist at all, so Criticism is really creative in the highest sense of the word.
0	It depresses me," murmured Lord Henry, examining his rings.
0	I will not look at thee, thou art accursed, Salomé, thou art accursed.
0	The critic is he who can translate into another manner or a new material his impression of beautiful things.
0	It was curious my not wanting to know her, wasn't it?"
0	But you understand now, don't you?"
0	There he stopped, feeling afraid to turn round, and his eyes fixed themselves on the intricacies of the pattern before him.
0	It can be used as a bracelet.
0	He flung himself down beside it on the sand, weeping as one trembling with joy, and in his brown arms he held it to his breast.
0	I could not tell the world the truth.
0	said Mr. Otis, rather angrily, thinking that she had been playing some foolish trick on them.
0	Yes, let us stay here.
0	When you and he ceased to be great friends, he ceased to be a great artist.
0	Some of them sell galbanum and nard, and curious perfumes from the islands of the Indian Sea, and the thick oil of red roses, and myrrh and little nail-shaped cloves.
0	You don’t think that—you can’t.
0	He read of the room that was prepared at the palace at Rheims for the use of Queen Joan of Burgundy and was decorated with "thirteen hundred and twenty-one parrots, made in broidery, and blazoned with the king's arms, and five hundred and sixty-one butterflies, whose wings were similarly ornamented with the arms of the queen, the whole worked in gold."
0	He had been a macaroni of the eighteenth century, and the friend, in his youth, of Lord Ferrars.
0	What sort of a brooch was it that you lost, Mrs. Cheveley?
0	Not yet: but I hope to be before lunch-time.
0	The head-keeper came running up with a stick in his hand.
0	[They pass into the house.
0	It has a perfect host, and a perfect library."
0	It is quite remarkable how one good action always breeds another.
0	The hand upon his shoulder weighed like a hand of lead.
0	You think I am a Puritan, I suppose?
0	The Tetrarch will not come to this place.
0	"I know she goes in for giving a rapid _precis_ of all her guests.
0	From time to time he seemed to see the eyes of Basil Hallward looking at him.
0	He is to go to the play to gain an artistic temperament.
0	The domestic virtues are not the true basis of art, though they may serve as an excellent advertisement for second-rate artists.
0	I have two passions, Lord Illingworth: my love of him, my hate of you.
0	In fact I consider you extremely dangerous, and if anything happens to our good duchess, we shall all look on you as being primarily responsible.
0	For the canons of good society are, or should be, the same as the canons of art.
0	How appalling is that ignorance which is the inevitable result of the fatal habit of imparting opinions!
0	There is always something infinitely mean about other people's tragedies."
0	As the door was closing behind him, he called him back.
0	Each man lived his own life and paid his own price for living it.
0	He couldn’t refuse you anything.
0	Not if there is any music going on, Miss Mabel.
0	The voice was exquisite, but from the point of view of tone it was absolutely false.
0	"Days in summer, Basil, are apt to linger," murmured Lord Henry.
0	By the Ilyssus, my dear Gilbert, there were no silly art congresses bringing provincialism to the provinces and teaching the mediocrity how to mouth.
0	She is just a little too attractive.
0	I wonder what it was.
0	I am very fond of being looked at.
0	You can’t be always living for pleasure.
0	“‘It is not a very big plank,’ said the Miller, looking at it, ‘and I am afraid that after I have mended my barn-roof there won’t be any left for you to mend the wheelbarrow with; but, of course, that is not my fault.
0	It is such a strain keeping men up to the mark.
0	Only people like stock-brokers do that, and then merely at dinner parties.
0	He was living then in Park Lane, in the house Lord Woolcomb has now.
0	It is very difficult sometimes to keep awake, especially at church, but there is no difficulty at all about sleeping.
0	I usen’t to be, but I am now.
0	You have missed not having a father, I suppose, Gerald?
0	call it what you like, tyranny, threats, anything you choose.
0	net_, _in 1912_                                 * * * * * _This book was First Published in 1893_ _First Published_ (_Second Edition_) _by      _February_           _1908_    Methuen & Co._ _Third Edition_                               _October_            _1909_ _Fourth edition_                              _October_            _1910_ _Fifth Edition_                               _May_                _1912_ SIR ROBERT CHILTERN, Bart., Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs VICOMTE DE NANJAC, Attaché at the French Embassy in London MASON, Butler to Sir Robert Chiltern PHIPPS, Lord Goring’s Servant HAROLD  } Footmen MISS MABEL CHILTERN, Sir Robert Chiltern’s Sister ACT I.
0	Whatever my life is, he had more to do with the making or the marring of it than poor Harry has had.
0	He collected together from all parts of the world the strangest instruments that could be found, either in the tombs of dead nations or among the few savage tribes that have survived contact with Western civilizations, and loved to touch and try them.
0	Besides, nothing makes one so vain as being told that one is a sinner.
0	After some time he came back.
0	I have, however, to do it, and now and then I have moments of submission and acceptance.
0	Egotism itself, which is so necessary to a proper sense of human dignity, is entirely the result of indoor life.
0	You are absurdly careless about sending out invitations.
0	Don't ever say things of that kind to me again.
0	In a fanciful passage in one of his early essays he had fancied himself ‘lying in Horsemonger Gaol under sentence of death’ for having been unable to resist the temptation of stealing some Marc Antonios from the British Museum in order to complete his collection.
0	Give me a week—three days!
0	But the world will never weary of watching that troubled soul in its progress from darkness to darkness.
0	Rosalind’s     Dost thou think, though I am caparisoned like a man, I have a doublet     and hose in my disposition?
0	"No, no," he cried petulantly.
0	Certainly no man ever fell so ignobly, and by such ignoble instruments, as I did.
0	Pleasure for the beautiful body, but pain for the beautiful soul.
0	Yes; he has a sombre look.
0	We live in the age of the overworked, and the under-educated; the age in which people are so industrious that they become absolutely stupid.
0	Well, make it Tuesday, sir, make it Tuesday.
0	You will wait and have some tea, won’t you?
0	"Oh, some of the papers do.
0	[_Goes towards ball-room on_ LORD WINDERMERE’S _arm_.]
0	_One feels that he is conscious of the success he has made in life_.
0	The same sin binds us.
0	He hoisted the Union Jack on the pinnacles of thought.
0	You are always looking at her.
0	If he thought me unworthy, unfit to weep with him, I should feel it as the most poignant humiliation, as the most terrible mode in which disgrace could be inflicted on me.
0	Yes, father, I prefer it domestic.
0	In that case, Lady Stutfield, they should be married off in a week to some plain respectable girl, in order to teach them not to meddle with other people’s property.
0	To know them is a middle-class education.
0	In literature we require distinction, charm, beauty and imaginative power.
0	Human life--that appeared to him the one thing worth investigating.
0	The whole family were now quite interested; Mr. Otis began to suspect that he had been too dogmatic in his denial of the existence of ghosts, Mrs. Otis expressed her intention of joining the Psychical Society, and Washington prepared a long letter to Messrs. Myers and Podmore on the subject of the Permanence of Sanguineous Stains when connected with Crime.
0	If only you could realise that, you would not want to be rich.
0	And Death laughed again, and he whistled through his fingers, and a woman came flying through the air.
0	Please don't be angry with me; if you had let us be engaged last year, there would never have been all this trouble.
0	I don’t like principles, father.
0	The man shambled down the passage in his slippers.
0	Do you think then—of course I am only putting an imaginary instance—do you think that in the case of a young married couple, say about two years married, if the husband suddenly becomes the intimate friend of a woman of—well, more than doubtful character—is always calling upon her, lunching with her, and probably paying her bills—do you think that the wife should not console herself?
0	He is wrapped in yellow linen, and embalmed with spices.
0	Lord Illingworth may change his mind.
0	If you wish to understand others you must intensify your own individualism.
0	It is addressed to _me_.
0	[Miss Prism discovered seated at the table.
0	I wonder if life has still in store for me anything as marvellous."
0	he said, taking up a pen.
0	One day a serial began in one of the French magazines.
0	And certainly, if his place is among the poets, he is the leader of all the lovers.
0	Better _Endymion_ than any theory, however sound, or, as in the present instance, unsound, of an epidemic among adjectives!
0	On his return he would sit in front of the picture, sometimes loathing it and himself, but filled, at other times, with that pride of individualism that is half the fascination of sin, and smiling with secret pleasure at the misshapen shadow that had to bear the burden that should have been his own.
0	She has got any amount of explanations for you—and all of them different.
0	It is not even a condition of criticism.
0	They are generally written by people who have either entirely lost their memories, or have never done anything worth remembering; which, however, is, no doubt, the true explanation of their popularity, as the English public always feels perfectly at its ease when a mediocrity is talking to it.
0	Father Damien was Christlike when he went out to live with the lepers, because in such service he realised fully what was best in him.
0	Though I am bound to say he never gave away any large sums of money to anybody.
0	Come therefore and take it, and the world’s riches shall be thine.’ But the young Fisherman laughed.
0	I didn’t know you were so anxious to leave me.
0	you told me so yesterday evening at the club.
0	Well, produce my cigarette case first.
0	Write that you decline to support this scheme of hers, as you hold it to be a dishonest scheme.
0	It was wrong in colour.
0	"Ask him to come in at once, Francis."
0	Whoever understands the costume of an age understands of necessity its architecture and its surroundings also, and it is easy to see from the chairs of a century whether it was a century of crinolines or not.
0	If the caveman had known how to laugh, history would have been different."
0	He hesitated for a moment, and then put it aside.
0	It springs from too primitive, too natural an impulse.
0	Conscience makes egotists of us all.
0	I have got to work up this background, so I will join you later on.
0	What was that loathsome red dew that gleamed, wet and glistening, on one of the hands, as though the canvas had sweated blood?
0	Sir Thomas waved his hand.
0	Yes, it was for the long palette-knife, with its thin blade of lithe steel.
0	And you are awfully unjust, Basil.
0	The self-conscious deposits of an age are nearly always misleading.
0	A seat in the Cabinet!
0	[_Approaching the cistern and looking down into it._] How black it is, down there!
0	My own experience is that the more we study Art, the less we care for Nature.
0	Now I want to know about the girl."
0	Besides, what do you know of this young man?
0	They threw us bread over the walls, little maize-cakes baked in honey and cakes of fine flour filled with dates.
0	[LADY AGATHA _and_ MR. HOPPER _cross and exit on terrace L.U.E._] PARKER.
0	What you have told me is quite a romance, a romance of art one might call it, and the worst of having a romance of any kind is that it leaves one so unromantic."
0	I have always been of opinion that a man who desires to get married should know either everything or nothing.
0	The separation of spirit from matter was a mystery, and the union of spirit with matter was a mystery also.
0	The Tetrarch is very fond of wine.
0	It can tell us what man thought before he learned how to write.
0	All that thou askest I will give thee, save one thing.
0	All his great achievements came back to him again, from the butler who had shot himself in the pantry because he had seen a green hand tapping at the window-pane, to the beautiful Lady Stutfield, who was always obliged to wear a black velvet band round her throat to hide the mark of five fingers burnt upon her white skin, and who drowned herself at last in the carp-pond at the end of the King's Walk.
0	That is good news indeed, Gerald.
0	Of course Lord Illingworth is awfully clever and that sort of thing.
0	He should never believe that we know the use of useful things.
0	Personal property hinders Individualism at every step.’  It is to be noted that Jesus never says that impoverished people are necessarily good, or wealthy people necessarily bad.
0	But he says I am not serious enough.
0	He saw nothing in it at all.
0	She has never defiled herself.
0	I did my best, however, though I was out of practice.
0	Thank you so much, Lady Markby, for England .
0	I am delighted to have it so unexpectedly restored to me.
0	[_Sits down on the sofa_.]
0	When I was going away he said to me that if I ever could give him any private information of real value he would make me a very rich man.
0	"Yes, it is my turn to dictate terms, Alan.
0	Summer followed summer, and the yellow jonquils bloomed and died many times, and nights of horror repeated the story of their shame, but he was unchanged.
0	Progress is the realisation of Utopias.
0	One who is an Emperor and King may stoop down to pick up a brush for a painter, but when the democracy stoops down it is merely to throw mud.
0	It saves time, and prevents arguments.” “But I like arguments,” said the Rocket.
0	I tried to spare you.
0	I like looking at geniuses, and listening to beautiful people.
0	Now, if you could plough the fields like the ox, or draw a cart like the horse, or look after the sheep like the collie-dog, that would be something.” “My good creature,” cried the Rocket in a very haughty tone of voice, “I see that you belong to the lower orders.
0	I passed a dreadful evening, half afraid that one tragedy might be followed by another.
0	The dreadful death of the unlucky beater, shot in the thicket like a wild animal, had seemed to him to pre-figure death for himself also.
0	It was quite evident that his feelings were so wounded that he would not appear.
0	My dear fellow, Gwendolen is my first cousin.
0	[_Coming up to_ LORD CAVERSHAM.]
0	I think the hour is an admirable hour!
0	If he was harsh to you, you must stay with your child.
0	He would seek to dominate him--had already, indeed, half done so.
0	Thackeray’s ‘Esmond’ is a beautiful work of art because he wrote it to please himself.
0	If any love is shown us we should recognise that we are quite unworthy of it.
0	It is much to surrender.
0	The artists reproduce either themselves or each other, with wearisome iteration.
0	It’s been an amusing experience to have met amongst people of one’s own rank, and treated quite seriously too, one’s mistress, and one’s— [MRS. ARBUTHNOT _snatches up glove and strikes_ LORD ILLINGWORTH _across the face with it_.
0	"No, Harry, I have done too many dreadful things in my life.
0	I am quite warm, Caroline, I assure you.
0	Truth in art is not any correspondence between the essential idea and the accidental existence; it is not the resemblance of shape to shadow, or of the form mirrored in the crystal to the form itself; it is no echo coming from a hollow hill, any more than it is a silver well of water in the valley that shows the moon to the moon and Narcissus to Narcissus.
0	I would consider it wrong.
0	Besides, your name isn't Jack at all; it is Ernest.
0	Mr. Otis, however, and his wife warmly assured the honest soul that they were not afraid of ghosts, and, after invoking the blessings of Providence on her new master and mistress, and making arrangements for an increase of salary, the old housekeeper tottered off to her own room.
0	For years I have sought you.
0	I am very pleased indeed.
0	The English think that a cheque-book can solve every problem in life.
0	It made the passion unreal.
0	You must not think of anything but your acting.
0	A few weeks later, through the elaborate investigations of the Metropolitan police, the perambulator was discovered at midnight, standing by itself in a remote corner of Bayswater.
0	Pluck out one of them and take it to him.
0	‘Will they not know me for a king if I have not a king’s raiment?’ ‘They will not know thee, my lord,’ cried the Chamberlain.
0	The shame would kill her.
0	Because I think we might be great friends.
0	"I have promised to drive with the duchess.
0	At present it is like a thing in another     world.
0	[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _is on the brink of accepting the Prime Minister’s offer_, _when he sees wife looking at him with her clear_, _candid eyes_.
0	It would hardly have been a really serious engagement if it hadn't been broken off at least once.
0	I sat down the same afternoon and wrote Baron Arnheim the letter this woman now holds.
0	“I am beginning to be appreciated,” he cried; “this is from some great admirer.
0	Rushing down-stairs, they found that a large suit of old armour had become detached from its stand, and had fallen on the stone floor, while seated in a high-backed chair was the Canterville ghost, rubbing his knees with an expression of acute agony on his face.
0	To the world, as to myself, you have been an ideal always.
0	But is there any particular infant in whom you are interested, Mr. Worthing?
0	To-night, for the first time, I became conscious that the Romeo was hideous, and old, and painted, that the moonlight in the orchard was false, that the scenery was vulgar, and that the words I had to speak were unreal, were not my words, were not what I wanted to say.
0	But Balzac is no more a realist than Holbein was.
0	And when the Woodcutter, who was cleaving logs in a haggard hard by, saw what the Star-Child was doing, he ran up and rebuked him, and said to him: ‘Surely thou art hard of heart and knowest not mercy, for what evil has this poor woman done to thee that thou shouldst treat her in this wise?’ And the Star-Child grew red with anger, and stamped his foot upon the ground, and said, ‘Who art thou to question me what I do?
0	It has taught me that a person who has once been guilty of a dishonest and dishonourable action may be guilty of it a second time, and should be shunned.
0	I knew them all quite intimately, and both the sons, Arthur and George.
0	A bitter blast swept across the square.
0	Art has no influence upon action.
0	Would you think it awfully rude of me if I asked you to go away?"
0	I told him your ladyship was not awake yet.
0	"They say that when good Americans die they go to Paris," chuckled Sir Thomas, who had a large wardrobe of Humour's cast-off clothes.
0	We are fascinated by their shame, and loiter, till Virgil chides us and leads us away to that city turreted by giants where great Nimrod blows his horn.
0	However, one night, while the family were at dinner, he slipped into Mr. Otis's bedroom and carried off the bottle.
0	One is always wounded when one approaches it.
0	There was a damp odour of mildew.
0	Now I feel quite differently.
0	Nor do I in any way approve of the modern sympathy with invalids.
0	What dreadful manners you have!
0	I should extremely like to meet them.
0	Yet they will insist on treating painting as if it were a mode of autobiography invented for the use of the illiterate, and are always prating to us on their coarse gritty canvases of their unnecessary selves and their unnecessary opinions, and spoiling by a vulgar over-emphasis that fine contempt of nature which is the best and only modest thing about them.
0	Besides, there are people still in the supper-room.
0	Nor are our other novelists much better.
0	Who wants to wade through a dull volume?
0	"Please don't ask me, Cecil, I cannot tell you.
0	Ah yes, I suppose it must have been at the Opera.
0	that is one of Harry's views, isn't it, Mr. Gray?
0	I suppose that is all right?
0	Well, the only small satisfaction I have in the whole of this wretched business is that your friend Bunbury is quite exploded.
0	Do you know, Mr. Hopper, dear Agatha and I are so much interested in Australia.
0	"That is entirely due to me," broke in Lord Henry.
0	MRS. CHEVELEY [_Elevating her eyebrows_.]
0	Is your ladyship at home this afternoon?
0	What a very sweet name!
0	Oh, here is the dear Archdeacon.
0	"You have explained me to myself, Harry," he murmured with something of a sigh of relief.
0	Why, thief is written across your face at this moment.
0	Later on London saw, perhaps too often, the sombre splendour of the Spanish Court, and to Elizabeth came envoys from all lands, whose dress, Shakespeare tells us, had an important influence on English costume.
0	And what dost thou seek in the wood?’ And the Star-Child answered, ‘I am seeking for a piece of yellow gold that is hidden here, and if I find it not my master will beat me, and keep me as a slave.’ ‘Follow me,’ cried the Hare, and it ran through the wood till it came to a pool of water.
0	_They are unconscious of her presence_.]
0	Of course, married life is merely a habit, a bad habit.
0	In fact, everywhere that Shakespeare turned in London, he saw the apparel and appurtenances of past ages, and it is impossible to doubt that he made use of his opportunities.
0	"Must I really come, Harry?"
0	It is a letter he wrote to you this morning, before he saw me.
0	_She looks at him with strange eyes_, _as though she were seeing him for the first time_.]
0	"I must sow poppies in my garden," sighed Dorian.
0	[_Yawns and closes his eyes_.]
0	Dragons will wander about the waste places, and the phoenix will soar from her nest of fire into the air.
0	It is sometimes said that the tragedy of an artist’s life is that he cannot realise his ideal.
0	You are always telling me of your bad qualities, Lord Goring.
0	He was determined that he would not think about what had happened until it became absolutely necessary that he should do so.
0	It has all the terrible beauty of a Greek tragedy, a tragedy in which I took a great part, but by which I have not been wounded."
0	Then I am sure they will be perfectly right.
0	I never go without my dinner.
0	I can't tell you how heart-broken I am about the whole thing.
0	That moment seemed to save me.
0	"Yes," he continued, coming closer to him and looking steadfastly into his stern eyes, "I shall show you my soul.
0	Lord Henry, don't you think that Mr. Gray should get married?"
0	That was the beginning of your reformation."
0	“She is like a white rose!” they cried, and they threw down flowers on her from the balconies.
0	My life is at stake.
0	They say she is ruining poor Windermere.
0	I will certainly speak to the gardener.
0	Therefore get thee hence, and let me see thee no more.’ ‘Alas!
0	He endured the ecclesiastical authority of the Jewish Church, and would not repel its violence by any violence of his own.
0	However, I excuse your ignorance.
0	As for omens, there is no such thing as an omen.
0	Nowadays people seem to look on life as a speculation.
0	You and I are friends, Basil, and we must always remain so."
0	How can I tell him?
0	He gives me good advice."
0	Nature follows the landscape painter, then, and takes her effects from him?
0	A great black cloud crosses the moon and conceals it completely.
0	It is a great delicacy.
0	Surely you don’t imagine that the people of the Middle Ages bore any resemblance at all to the figures on mediæval stained glass, or in mediæval stone and wood carving, or on mediæval metal-work, or tapestries, or illuminated MSS.
0	Oh, I am afraid I am.
0	Something horrid about me, I suppose.
0	To hear them talk one would imagine they were in their first childhood.
0	I am afraid not this afternoon, Lady Hunstanton.
0	The child of the old King’s only daughter by a secret marriage with one much beneath her in station—a stranger, some said, who, by the wonderful magic of his lute-playing, had made the young Princess love him; while others spoke of an artist from Rimini, to whom the Princess had shown much, perhaps too much honour, and who had suddenly disappeared from the city, leaving his work in the Cathedral unfinished—he had been, when but a week old, stolen away from his mother’s side, as she slept, and given into the charge of a common peasant and his wife, who were without children of their own, and lived in a remote part of the forest, more than a day’s ride from the town.
0	He felt a terrible joy at the thought that some one else was to share his secret, and that the man who had painted the portrait that was the origin of all his shame was to be burdened for the rest of his life with the hideous memory of what he had done.
0	[_He kisses her and goes out_.]
0	But to recognise that the soul of a man is unknowable, is the ultimate achievement of wisdom.
0	Last of all came the young Witch, with her red hair streaming in the wind.
0	The third morning also it was there, though the library had been locked up at night by Mr. Otis himself, and the key carried up-stairs.
0	I have searched for pleasure."
0	As he unbarred the door, a smile of joy flitted across his strangely young-looking face and lingered for a moment about his lips.
0	As regards this dreadful business, I will help you in whatever way I can.
0	“Last summer, when I was staying on the river, there were two rude boys, the miller’s sons, who were always throwing stones at me.
0	Why do you make that your special one?
0	The value of black is hardly appreciated; it was used effectively by Mr. Irving in _Hamlet_ as the central note of a composition, but as a tone-giving neutral its importance is not recognised.
0	You will not have to read long."
0	That is why I want you to reform me.
0	The Witch grew pale, and shuddered, and hid her face in her blue mantle.
0	When I think of them at night I go to sleep at once.
0	Doesn’t that sound rather like tempting Providence?
0	Tell them to do it at once, Parker.
0	And I don't like that.
0	It is for mine own pleasure that I ask the head of Jokanaan in a silver charger.
0	I choose my friends for their good looks, my acquaintances for their good characters, and my enemies for their good intellects.
0	"It is dreadful, from one point of view, but it was not your fault.
0	Wilt thou say to the buyer, “Thou shalt buy for so much,” and to the seller, “Thou shalt sell at this price”?
0	Arnold’s definition of literature as a criticism of life was not very felicitous in form, but it showed how keenly he recognised the importance of the critical element in all creative work.
0	It will give us the peace that springs from understanding.
0	It is one of Cæsar's titles.
0	"Do you mean to say you don't like what I did of you?
0	For my sake you are prepared to do this terrible thing?
0	"Sibyl has a mother," she murmured; "I had none."
0	And there dwell in this comely garden white peacocks and peacocks that have blue breasts.
0	Twenty-nine when there are pink shades, thirty when there are not.
0	“What are you doing here?” he cried in a very gruff voice, and the children ran away.
0	It always means that they have a history.
0	It is only a dance in honour of my birthday.
0	Surely yes, in a silver charger.
0	I have never seen Cæsar.
0	Or, to return again to the past, take as another instance the ancient Greeks.
0	we are mistaken in our amiable and well-meaning efforts.
0	“‘As I was his best friend,’ said the Miller, ‘it is only fair that I should have the best place’; so he walked at the head of the procession in a long black cloak, and every now and then he wiped his eyes with a big pocket-handkerchief.
0	One should absorb the colour of life, but one should never remember its details.
0	The motives are, of course, made to his hand, and never was there a more suitable material for that odd tangent art in which there are no tactile values.
0	I regret it very much.
0	My dear Vivian, don’t coop yourself up all day in the library.
0	What have I to do with the puppets of a play?
0	A man’s love is like that.
0	Better that we had died of cold in the forest, or that some wild beast had fallen upon us and slain us.’ ‘Truly,’ answered his companion, ‘much is given to some, and little is given to others.
0	The public are all morbid, because the public can never find expression for anything.
0	The public appreciate his artistic success immensely.
0	I couldn’t find the photograph anywhere.
0	The prig is a very interesting psychological study, and though of all poses a moral pose is the most offensive, still to have a pose at all is something.
0	I am afraid, however, that, for me at any rate, there is no such thing.
0	All his failure had been due to that.
0	Yes, quite, quite important, is it not?
0	I have no mother, nor, in fact, any relations.
0	At the prow of the galley sat a shark-charmer, beating monotonously upon a drum.
0	Why are you always gazing at her?
0	My dear fellow, whatever you may say, it is merely a dramatic utterance, and no more represents Shakespeare’s real views upon art than the speeches of Iago represent his real views upon morals.
0	And the ending is the ordinary ending.
0	The blade whizzed through me, and did me no hurt.
0	But go to my brother who grows round the old sun-dial, and perhaps he will give you what you want.” So the Nightingale flew over to the Rose-tree that was growing round the old sun-dial.
0	"Oh, I hate the cheap severity of abstract ethics!
0	“I am the Happy Prince.” “Why are you weeping then?” asked the Swallow; “you have quite drenched me.” “When I was alive and had a human heart,” answered the statue, “I did not know what tears were, for I lived in the Palace of Sans-Souci, where sorrow is not allowed to enter.
0	let me be happy for ever!"
0	A man can’t tell these things about another man!
0	"What an ass the man was to get in front of the guns!
0	And if life be, as it surely is, a problem to me, I am no less a problem to life.
0	Indeed, at the present moment he is supposed to be in Paris.
0	And so, if you desire to see a Japanese effect, you will not behave like a tourist and go to Tokio.
0	I apologize to you both."
0	I always pass on good advice.
0	The thing to do is to keep men in their proper place.
0	There is not one of them to help me.
0	We have been able to have fine poetry in England because the public do not read it, and consequently do not influence it.
0	Couldn't you miss it anywhere but in London?
0	It was easy for the adulterous queen to spread the Tyrian carpets for her lord, and then, as he lay couched in the marble bath, to throw over his head the purple net, and call to her smooth-faced lover to stab through the meshes at the heart that should have broken at Aulis.
0	"It is an annoying subject," broke in Lord Henry.
0	We are not told the history of her love, but that love must have been very great; for Jesus said that her sins were forgiven her, not because she repented, but because her love was so intense and wonderful.
0	I see now that you were right.
0	He felt as if an iron ring was being slowly tightened round his forehead, as if the disgrace with which he was threatened had already come upon him.
0	Dorian Gray stepped up on the dais with the air of a young Greek martyr, and made a little _moue_ of discontent to Lord Henry, to whom he had rather taken a fancy.
0	But the world might guess it, and I will not bare my soul to their shallow prying eyes.
0	You are quite right, dear.
0	It is what I call selfishness, and selfishness is a most detestable thing, especially to any one of my temperament, for I am well known for my sympathetic nature.
0	cried the old lady, pushing back her chair and nodding to Lady Ruxton.
0	If I bring her a red rose she will dance with me till dawn.
0	Not, however, that that would alter you much.
0	I know I am not.
0	In fact, I was on my way to the club to look for you, when I met you.
0	_Then there is a pause of bliss_.]
0	Had the lover of Giovanna of Naples bequeathed him some inheritance of sin and shame?
0	There is far more to be said in favour of that newer school at Paris, the _Archaicistes_, as they call themselves, who, refusing to leave the artist entirely at the mercy of the weather, do not find the ideal of art in mere atmospheric effect, but seek rather for the imaginative beauty of design and the loveliness of fair colour, and rejecting the tedious realism of those who merely paint what they see, try to see something worth seeing, and to see it not merely with actual and physical vision, but with that nobler vision of the soul which is as far wider in spiritual scope as it is far more splendid in artistic purpose.
0	I am so sorry for what I said to you this afternoon about her.
0	Fortunately it is all on the surface.
0	The Mystical in Art, the Mystical in Life, the Mystical in Nature this is what I am looking for.
0	[_Falls sobbing on the sofa_.]
0	Yet it seems to me to have been, in a measure, done.
0	Yes; dear Windermere is becoming almost modern.
0	This world is good enough for me, cousin Cecily.
0	What does your husband give you?
0	The world had looked upon him as infamous.
0	We have all the information about it at the Foreign Office.
0	"I am glad of that.
0	She produces her false Renés and her sham Vautrins, just as Nature gives us, on one day a doubtful Cuyp, and on another a more than questionable Rousseau.
0	Finally, at half-past seven, the arrival of the housemaids made him give up his fearful vigil, and he stalked back to his room, thinking of his vain oath and baffled purpose.
0	It looks like the beginning of a middle-class romance.
0	She has a strange look.
0	To have made such an appeal would have been from the individualist point of view bad enough, but what excuse can there ever be put forward for having made it?
0	If you do I will never forgive you.
0	It is what fascinates us in the letters of personalities so different as Cicero and Balzac, Flaubert and Berlioz, Byron and Madame de Sévigné.
0	_Lady Windermere is receiving them_.
0	He shall never know anything about it.
0	Oh, tell me it is not true!
0	Well, I hope he is not as devoted to Blue Books as Sir John is.
0	You have no right to do so.
0	It is my garland that hurts me, my garland of roses.
0	I am not in a mood for talking to-night.
0	I should like to see Lord Illingworth in a happy English home.
0	But he should be pitiless, quite pitiless, in reproaching us for the virtues that we have never dreamed of possessing.
0	After some time Dorian Gray looked up.
0	I must tell them that the subject is to be tabooed.
0	He heard Campbell bringing in the heavy chest, and the irons, and the other things that he had required for his dreadful work.
0	Your mother, no doubt, or some female relative of advanced years, resides here also?
0	He rose from his seat with a faint cry of joy, and taking her hand bent over it with old-fashioned grace and kissed it.
0	In modern life nothing produces such an effect as a good platitude.
0	how mad I was to love you!
0	I am afraid you are not eligible.
0	She passed through the great multitude, and a third of them lay dead.
0	I can resist everything except temptation.
0	[Taking LADY STUTFIELD by the hand.]
0	[_Coming down back of table_.]
0	They have absolutely no respect for dyed hair.
0	For what is morbidity but a mood of emotion or a mode of thought that one cannot express?
0	You need have no apprehensions.
0	Suddenly there flashed across his mind what he had said in Basil Hallward's studio the day the picture had been finished.
0	And a delicate flush of pink came into the leaves of the rose, like the flush in the face of the bridegroom when he kisses the lips of the bride.
0	The slaves fell asleep over their oars.
0	"I am not even singed.
0	Then life has taught you nothing?
0	At times he reminds us of Julien Sorel.
0	I am not going to be one of them.
0	Then had come Lord Henry Wotton with his strange panegyric on youth, his terrible warning of its brevity.
0	By the way, what has become of that wonderful portrait he did of you?
0	It often seems to me that art conceals the artist far more completely than it ever reveals him.
0	I swore I would kill you in return.
0	"You must introduce me now," cried Lord Henry, laughing.
0	They paint in order to try and look young.
0	I was waiting for you to say that, Robert.
0	However, that could easily be altered.
0	"I believe he married Lady Radley's maid, and has established her in Paris as an English dressmaker.
0	To sweep a slushy crossing for eight hours, on a day when the east wind is blowing is a disgusting occupation.
0	What a romance it had all been!
0	"It is nothing, Duchess," he murmured; "my nerves are dreadfully out of order.
